 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confined Spaces 
Guideline  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confined Spaces 
Guideline  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ministry of Labour 
 
July 2011 
 

 
An electronic copy of this publication is available on the Ministry of Labour 
website at www.labour.gov.on.ca 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised July 2011  
 
© 2011 Queen’s Printer for Ontario 
 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6841-8 (Print) 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6842-5 (HTML) 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6843-2 (PDF) 
 
Le présent document est aussi disponible en français sous le titre « Directives 
concernant les espaces confinés »  [ISBN 978-1-4435-6844-9 (version imprimée) 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6845-6 (version HTML) ISBN 978-1-4435-6846-3 (version 
PDF)]. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1. 
Introduction ................................................................................................1 
2. 
Purpose......................................................................................................2 
3. 
Application..................................................................................................3 
4. 
Confined Spaces........................................................................................6 
5. 
The Program ............................................................................................16 
6. 
Hazard Assessment .................................................................................18 
7. 
The Plan...................................................................................................22 
8. 
Coordination Document ...........................................................................24 
9. 
Training ....................................................................................................27 
10. 
Entry Permit .............................................................................................31 
11. 
Isolation of Energy and Control of Materials Movement...........................34 
12. 
Atmospheric Testing ................................................................................37 
13. 
Ventilation and Purging ............................................................................42 
14. 
Hot Work ..................................................................................................45 
15. 
On-site Rescue Procedures and Equipment ............................................47 
16. 
Means of Entering and Exiting .................................................................51 
17. 
Preventing Unauthorized Entry ................................................................52 
18. 
Roles and Responsibilities .......................................................................53 
19. 
Documents...............................................................................................57 
Appendix.............................................................................................................60 
 
 


 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
1 
1. 
INTRODUCTION  
 
 
As of July 1, 2011, the confined space requirements that were found in four 
sector-specific regulations under the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA) 
have been consolidated into the Confined Spaces Regulation (O. Reg. 632/05).  
 
The employer is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of OHSA and its 
regulations are complied with in the workplace.  The employer must ensure that 
workers are protected, whether or not the confined space provisions apply. 
 
Contravention of any of the requirements of the OHSA and its regulations is an 
offence which carries a maximum fine of $25,000 or imprisonment for a term of 
not more than twelve months, or both, for a person.  The maximum fine for a 
corporation is $500,000 per offence. 

 
 
 
2 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
2. 
PURPOSE  
 
 
This guideline has been prepared to assist the workplace parties in 
understanding the requirements of the confined space provisions in the Confined 
Spaces Regulation (O. Reg. 632/05) under the OHSA. It is not intended to 
replace the Regulation and reference should always be made to the official 
version of the Regulation. In any case where the guideline may differ from the 
Regulation, the regulatory provisions prevail. 
 
The guideline does not prescribe how an employer must develop and implement 
specific components necessary for confined space entry and safe work in 
confined spaces in order to comply with the Regulation; however, it answers 
common questions about the regulatory provisions. In addition, tables of 
regulatory provisions are provided in each section, where applicable. 
 
It is the responsibility of the workplace parties to ensure compliance with the 
OHSA and its regulations. This guideline does not constitute legal advice and 
has no legal effect. If you require assistance with respect to the interpretation of 
the Regulation and its potential application in specific circumstances, please 
contact your legal counsel. 
 
While this guideline will also be available to Ministry of Labour (MOL) inspectors, 
they will apply and enforce the OHSA and its regulations based on the facts as 
they may find them in the workplace. This guideline does not affect their 
enforcement discretion in any way.  
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
3 
3. 
APPLICATION 
 
Who is covered by the new and amended confined spaces provisions? 
 
The confined space requirements provide for the protection of most workers in 
Ontario covered by the OHSA. Confined space provisions previously found in the 
sector regulations under the OHSA (Regulation for Industrial Establishments, 
Regulation for Construction Projects, Regulation for Health Care and Residential 
Facilities, and Regulation for Mines and Mining Plants) have been consolidated 
into one regulation, O. Reg. 632/05 (Confined Spaces Regulation or Regulation).  
 
In addition, the Confined Spaces Regulation continues to apply to most other 
workplaces that are covered by the OHSA but not by one of the specific sector 
regulations. The MOL generally refers to these types of workplaces as “extended 
workplaces”, meaning that although the OHSA applies to them, there is no 
specific sector regulation that applies. Some examples of workers in extended 
workplaces are provincially regulated truck drivers when on the road, sewer 
service workers and teachers in educational facilities.  
 
Several of the confined space provisions in the Regulation that apply on 
construction projects vary slightly from those that apply to other workplaces. This 
guideline will highlight these variations, where they exist.  
 
The OHSA and its regulations can be found at www.e-laws.gov.on.ca and at the 
Ministry of Labour web site at www.labour.gov.on.ca 
 
Who is not covered by these provisions? 
 
Workers in federally regulated workplaces, such as federal public servants, 
railway workers and airline workers are covered by federal labour legislation.  
 
The Confined Spaces Regulation also does not apply to divers during a diving 
operation as defined in O. Reg. 629/94 (Diving Operations). 
 
Although the OHSA, with certain limitations and three regulations made under it  
apply to farming operations, the Confined Spaces Regulation does not.  
However, the MOL has worked with farming stakeholders to develop health and 
safety guidelines to help employers, supervisors and workers on farms to 
recognize hazards.  The “Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines for Farming 
Operations in Ontario” address hazardous atmospheres and confined spaces. 

 
 
 
4 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
Notably, separate activities on a farm that are not part of the farming operation 
(e.g., construction of a building) would be subject to the Confined Spaces 
Regulation if there is a confined space that workers may enter to perform work. 
 
Why are there exceptions for some emergency work? 
 
Only a firefighter as defined in the Fire Protection and Prevention Act, 1997 and 
a person who holds a certificate under the Technical Standards and Safety Act, 
2000 working under the direction of a fire department are exempt from parts of 
the Regulation while performing emergency work. Hazard recognition and other 
general training requirements continue to apply.  
 
“Emergency work”, as defined in the Regulation, means “work performed in 
connection with an unforeseen event that involves an imminent danger to the life, 
health or safety of any person.”   
 
There may be situations in which these workers must enter a confined space in 
order to perform emergency work, and it would not be reasonable to require that 
all of the administrative steps be taken prior to entry. In order for the exception to 
apply, the employer of the firefighter or gas technician must provide written 
procedures and other measures, confined space training, and personal protective 
equipment, clothing and devices to protect the workers during the emergency 
work.  
 
Do workplaces have to comply with the national standard issued by the 
Canadian Standards Association (CSA), “Z1006-10, Management of Work in 
Confined Spaces”? 
 
No. CSA standards are voluntary standards and have been developed by 
committees with multiple stakeholders. It is up to a workplace to determine 
whether a standard would assist with compliance with legislative or regulatory 
requirements. Unless otherwise required by legislation or regulation to comply 
with a CSA standard, a CSA standard is a best practice standard that does not 
legally need to be complied with. The CSA confined space standard is not 
incorporated by reference into the Confined Spaces Regulation. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
5 
I am an employer and my workplace has a confined space. I contract out 
work to be done in the confined space. Do these provisions apply to me?   
 
Yes. You are still an employer, as defined under the OHSA, when you contract 
out work for services. The general duties of the employer under the OHSA would 
apply, regardless of the situation. Therefore you have to ensure that workers who 
you have hired comply with the confined spaces provisions.  
 
Refer to the multiple employer section when there are workers of more than one 
employer required to work in the same confined space. 
 
Constructor duties, as defined under the OHSA would apply on construction 
projects.  
 
I am a provincially regulated employer, who often is contracted by a 
federally regulated business, for federal business. Sometimes, we may also 
work with federal companies but for our own business. How would the 
Confined Spaces Regulation apply? 
 
Provincially regulated workers, who occasionally work at or on a federal 
undertaking, are generally still subject to the authority of the OHSA. However, 
jurisdiction is determined on a case-by-case basis, and employers may wish to 
contact the Ministry of Labour for further information pertaining to their specific 
situations: Ministry of Labour Health & Safety Contact Centre: 1-877-202-0008. 
 

 
 
 
6 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
4. 
CONFINED SPACES 
 
 
“confined space” means a fully or partially enclosed space, 
(a) 
that is not both designed and constructed for continuous human 
occupancy, and 
(b) 
in which atmospheric hazards may occur because of its 
construction, location or contents or because of work that is done in 
it.  
If you have a space that is fully or partially enclosed, the two conditions - (a) and 
(b) above - must both apply before the space can be considered a “confined 
space”. 
 
Do I have a confined space in my workplace? 
 
To determine whether a "space" meets the definition of a confined space 
consider the following 3 questions: 
o Is the space fully or partially enclosed?  
o Is the space not both designed and constructed for continuous human 
occupancy?  
o Might an atmospheric hazard occur?  
 
The only way to determine if a “space” meets the definition for a “confined space” 
is to evaluate it. How the evaluation is done is up to the employer.   
 
If you have a fully or partially enclosed space: 
 
Is it designed and 
constructed for 
continuous 
human occupancy? 
Might an atmospheric 
hazard occur?  
Is it a confined space? 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
7 
We have determined a specific space not to be a confined space as per the 
Confined Spaces Regulation, but still prefer to conduct some air sampling 
prior to entering just to ensure that nothing unforeseen has occurred. Does 
this mean that we have to implement a confined space program for this 
space? 
 
No, assuming this space was properly evaluated ahead of time and deemed not 
to be a confined space as per the definition. However, there is nothing preventing 
employers from taking any additional precautionary measures for any other 
spaces outside of this regulation, including air sampling as an example.  
Even though confined space provisions do not apply, employers would still need 
to comply with other relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable. 
 
Is there a difference between a “restricted space” and a “confined space”? 
 
Yes. Only the Regulation for Health Care and Residential Facilities (O. Reg. 
67/93) speaks of a “restricted space” in section 42.  In this regulation a restricted 
space refers, in part, to a “space from which the egress of a worker is restricted, 
limited, or impeded”. A “restricted space” may also be a confined space, thus, an 
evaluation of the space may determine that the area is either a confined space, a 
restricted space, or both.  
 
Does the Confined Spaces Regulation apply to spaces that cannot be 
entered due to their size? 
 
The Confined Spaces Regulation is intended to protect a worker who performs 
work within a fully or partially enclosed space that is not both designed and 
constructed for continuous human occupancy and in which atmospheric hazards 
may occur.  
 
A confined space is a space that can be occupied by a person. It is the Ministry’s 
position that the opening of the confined space would, therefore, need to be of 
such a size that a person’s body could pass through it into the space. An entry is 
an action that is considered to have occurred as soon as any part of the entrant’s 
body breaks the plane of an opening into such a space, regardless of whether 
the intended work activities may or may not require whole body entry, such as 
atmospheric testing.  Under such a condition, the Confined Spaces Regulation 
would apply. 
 
If there is a space that has an opening of a size that a person’s body could not 
pass through it, the Confined Spaces Regulation would not apply even if a body 
part of a person (e.g. hands) would break the plane of such an opening to 

 
 
 
8 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
perform work activities. However, in these circumstances, the employer must still 
comply with other requirements under the OHSA, including taking every 
precaution reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health and 
safety of the worker. For example, there may be hazards associated with the 
space, such as explosive gases, and employers would need to comply with 
relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable, and take every precaution 
reasonable in the circumstances to protect workers working on or near these 
spaces.  
 
HUMAN OCCUPANCY  
 
To determine if a space is designed and constructed for human occupancy, one 
must look at the intent and construction of the space – what is the purpose of the 
space, or in other words, what was it intended for, and to what standards has it 
been designed and constructed to allow people to occupy it? 
 
Although the regulation does not define human occupancy, the MOL uses the 
term ‘continuous human occupancy’ to refer to a space that has been designed 
and constructed in accordance with recognized codes and standards that contain 
provisions to make the space suitable for humans to occupy, such as provisions 
for structural adequacy, entry and exit, ventilation and lighting such that a human 
could continually occupy that space.  Examples are the Ontario Building Code, 
the Ontario Fire Code, and CSA B52 (Mechanical Refrigeration Code). 
 
Workspaces such as offices, arenas, maintenance rooms, control rooms, etc., 
are obvious places that are designed for humans to occupy for long periods of 
time (continuously). These spaces are not considered a confined space, 
regardless of the atmospheric hazards that may occur in them. However, 
occupational health and safety legislation and regulations apply and must be 
complied with to protect workers.  
 
Other spaces, such as parts of a tunnelling operation or an underground mine 
(stopes, drifts, ramps, shafts, raises), are designed and constructed specifically 
for people to carry out work within them. Specific codes and standards and 
requirements are intended to make the space adequate for the health and safety 
of workers. However, parts of a tunnel or mine could be confined spaces. 
Tunnels and mines could also include confined spaces within them, such as bins, 
tanks, clean or dirty water sumps, and water storage dams.  
 
Some examples of spaces that would not be considered as “both designed and 
constructed for continuous human occupancy” are: 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
9 
 storage tanks, tank cars, process vessels, boilers, pressure vessels, 
vats, bins, silos, bag-houses and other tank like compartments usually 
having only a manhole for entry 
 open topped spaces such as pump wells, augured caissons, pits or 
degreasers  
 pipes, sewers, ducts and similar structures 
 cargo tanks, cellular double bottom tanks, duct keels, ballast and oil 
tanks and void spaces 
 chutes, mill holes, ore bins, inside of a skip hanging in a shaft, crusher 
jaws 
 flues, chimneys, ovens or furnaces. 
 
Structures such as vessels, sewers and tank cars are designed and constructed 
to play a role in part of a process.  Their primary purpose is to contain, transport, 
move or manipulate materials or equipment and they are not primarily designed 
for people to occupy them. They may have structures such as ladders or 
platforms where workers can perform work within the space on occasion.  
However, these spaces were not designed for continuous human occupancy. 
 
A construction project space that is intended for human occupancy but not yet 
completed in its construction is not considered a confined space if its stage of 
construction is suitable for continuous human occupancy. Some construction 
spaces such as sumps and tanks and projects within these spaces may be 
confined spaces, but not projects in general. 
 
A chamber or vault may have cooling ventilation for equipment purposes and 
have a temporary access space, designed to allow workers to access pipes and 
equipment (perhaps by using ladders or a door).  However, this does not mean 
that it has been designed to meet codes and standards that would allow workers 
to safely perform their duties on a regular basis within the chamber or vault. 
Therefore, these spaces are considered NOT to be both designed and 
constructed for continuous human occupancy.   
 
What are examples of spaces that are both designed and constructed for 
continuous human occupancy? 
 
Some examples include offices, service rooms (such as mechanical rooms, 
elevator rooms), shops, walk-in freezers and refrigerators, laboratories, 
flammable liquid storage and dispensing rooms, and rooms equipped with 
approved fire suppression systems. 

 
 
 
10 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
Trenches that are under construction and that are in compliance with the O. Reg. 
213/91 (Construction Projects) requirements (which cover access and egress, 
stability of the trench walls and adequate ventilation in the trench) would have 
been designed for continuous human occupancy during the construction 
phase – (by virtue of complying with O. Reg. 213/91). 
 
What if I cannot determine if a space is not designed and constructed for 
human occupancy? 
 
Where it is not obvious and your evaluation does not determine whether a 
workspace is or is not designed for continuous human occupancy, consider 
whether or not there may be an atmospheric hazard present because of its 
design, construction or location and the work to be performed.  
 
If it is determined that no atmospheric hazard may occur, then the confined 
space provisions would not apply in any case, and the human occupancy 
question need not be considered. 
 
Where an atmospheric hazard may exist and you are still uncertain as to whether 
the space is designed for human occupancy, you may wish to comply with the 
confined space provisions.  
 
What if the space is so small, such as a six inch pipe?  
 
Refer to answer in Section 4, Confined Spaces - “Does this regulation apply to 
spaces that cannot be entered due to their size?” 
 
ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS 
 
“atmospheric hazards” means,  
(a) 
the accumulation of flammable, combustible or explosive agents, 
(b) 
an oxygen content in the atmosphere that is less than 19.5 per cent 
or more than 23 per cent by volume, or 
(c) 
the accumulation of atmospheric contaminants, including gases, 
vapours, fumes, dusts or mists, that could, 
(i) 
result in acute health effects that pose an immediate threat 
to life, or 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
11 
(ii) 
interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a 
confined space. 
 
In the definition of a confined space, what is meant by “in which 
atmospheric hazards may occur”?  
 
The intent of this wording is to ensure that consideration is given to atmospheric 
hazards that may exist in the space or that may occur due to the following: 
o The construction of the space 
o The location of the space 
o The contents of the space 
o The work being done in the space. 
 
The evaluation of the space to determine if the regulatory requirements apply 
may include consideration of previous data (including air sampling), knowledge of 
the process and space, data on space configuration (size, design, areas for 
pocketing, double wall, etc.) and knowledge and data on the generation and 
accumulation of contaminants. Historical information, such as previous incidents 
that occurred in the specific space or similar spaces, or incidents that have 
occurred with similar processes, should also be taken into account.  
 
In determining whether a hazardous atmosphere may occur, consideration 
should, among other things, be given to the atmosphere that may be present or 
which is created by routine, normal work activities. While the potential 
consequences of unexpected events (such as the inadvertent cutting of a hose) 
need to be considered by the employer in order to take reasonable precautions, 
the risk assessment undertaken by the employer should determine whether 
these events would be within the scope of normal work activities. 
 
What are possible sources of atmospheric hazards? 
 
Sources of atmospheric hazards may include: 
1. Previous contents of the space.  An example would be a tank with a 
residual amount of organic solvent in it, such as perchloroethylene. 
2. Atmospheric hazards generated from chemical reactions of materials 
present in the space.  An example would be the decomposition of 
organic materials that would cause the formation of methane, a 
flammable gas, and hydrogen sulphide, a toxic atmospheric 
contaminant. Another example would be rusting, or oxidation, within a 

 
 
 
12 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
confined space that would consume oxygen and cause an oxygen 
deficiency. 
3. Activities performed in or about the space.  Examples include welding, 
which generates welding fumes, and solvent cleaning, which generates 
solvent vapours. 
4. Hazardous contaminants that may inadvertently enter into the space 
from adjacent processes or locations.  An example would be carbon 
monoxide from vehicle exhaust entering street manholes or a trench. 
 
What is a “flammable gas”? 
 
A “flammable gas” is a gas that is capable of being ignited and burned when 
mixed with the proper proportions of air, oxygen or other oxidizer.  
 
Note: A “flammable gas” is defined by the National Fire Protection Association 
(NFPA) as a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia 
(101.325 kPa), that is ignitable at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia (101.325 
kPa) when in a mixture of 13 percent or less by volume with air, or that has a 
flammable range at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia (101.325 kPa) with air of at 
least 12 percent, regardless of the lower limit. 
 
What is a “flammable vapour”? 
 
A “flammable vapour” is the vapour generated by a flammable liquid that is 
capable of being ignited and burned when mixed with the proper proportions of 
air, oxygen, or other oxidizer. 
 
What is a “flammable liquid”? 
 
A "flammable liquid" means a liquid with a flash point below 37.8 degrees Celsius 
and a vapour pressure not exceeding 275 kilopascals absolute at 37.8 degrees 
Celsius. 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
13 
What is meant by “atmospheric contaminants, including gases, vapours, 
fumes, dusts or mists that could result in acute health effects that pose an 
immediate threat to life or interfere with a person’s ability to escape 
unaided from a confined space”?  
 
This refers to toxic airborne agents that when inhaled in high concentrations 
could cause acute health effects shortly after an overexposure.  Acute health 
effects may include very serious outcomes such as impairment of judgement, 
unconsciousness, and death.  Acute health effects such as irritation, narcosis or 
anaesthesia could also interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from 
the exposure situation.  Examples of symptoms that may lead to acute health 
effects include burning eyes, coughing, dizziness, nausea, disorientation, lack of 
coordination, headache, or other symptoms that manifest immediately following 
the exposure.  If such symptoms are experienced upon entry, it is important that 
an evaluation be undertaken to determine if there is a possibility of health effects 
that could cause unconsciousness or death and as such require compliance with 
confined space entry requirements. 
 
What is the connection between the phrase, “atmospheric contaminants, 
including gases, vapours, fumes, dusts or mists that could result in acute 
health effects that pose immediate threat to life or interfere with a person’s 
ability to escape unaided from a confined space” and the phrase, “airborne 
contaminants with IDLH levels”? 
 
“Atmospheric contaminants” is meant to have a similar meaning to “airborne 
contaminants” with IDLH (Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health) levels when 
referring to airborne contaminants with acute toxicity.  Both relate to 
overexposure that could interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a 
confined space.  
 
IDLH is not a term defined in the Regulation, but is a term used by NIOSH 
(National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health) to describe levels for air 
contaminants in the selection of respiratory protection against airborne 
contaminant exposure.  Generally speaking, the IDLH level of airborne 
contaminants is considered to be a concentration that is immediately dangerous 
to life or health because the IDLH concentration could cause escape-impairing 
symptoms or acute irreversible health effects.   
 

 
 
 
14 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
Is the application of confined space provisions triggered by potential 
exposure to IDLH levels of air contaminants? 
 
For a space to fall within the Regulation’s “confined space” definition, it must 
meet certain criteria (see section 4 of this guideline) including, a fully or partially 
enclosed space in which atmospheric hazards may occur because of its 
construction, location or contents or because of work that is done in it. 
Consideration of IDLH levels may be a factor in determining the criteria for 
atmospheric hazards.  
 
What does ‘escape unaided’ mean?  
 
It means being able to escape without the assistance of respiratory protection, 
emergency equipment or other devices, or other persons.  
 
If measures and/or controls are taken to control hazards in a space prior to 
workers entering it, do we still need to consider it a confined space? 
 
Control measures, such as continuous mechanical ventilation to ensure that the 
concentrations of an atmospheric hazard are controlled or maintained at an 
appropriate level, would not eliminate the possibility of a potential atmospheric 
hazard, and therefore the space would be considered a confined space.   
 
If measures are implemented to eliminate the possibility that any atmospheric 
hazards may occur in a space, then the confined space provisions would no 
longer need to apply.  Elimination of an atmospheric hazard occurring is different 
from the control of the hazard. If workers must enter the confined space to 
eliminate the hazards (steam cleaning, for example), then the regulations would 
apply during the cleaning process.  
 
Every confined space can be unique and must be thoroughly evaluated to 
determine whether or not it is possible to eliminate the potential for an 
atmospheric hazard to occur. 
 
Note that even if a space might not be a confined space under the Confined 
Space Regulation, the employer must take every precaution reasonable in the 
circumstances to protect workers entering the space, as required under clause 
25(2)(h) of the OHSA.  
 

 
 
What are the hazards of oxygen deficiency or enrichment? 
 
If the concentration of oxygen falls below the acceptable limit of 19.5%, the 
space is oxygen-deficient. This hazard is a significant cause of many fatalities in 
confined spaces. Oxygen deficiency may occur from biological or chemical 
reactions such as rusting, or by displacement of oxygen by other gases.  
 
If the concentration exceeds the limit of 23%, then the space is oxygen-enriched, 
increasing the likelihood of explosions or fires by increasing the potential of any 
combustible or flammable material to be ignited as well as the rate of reaction. 
Oxygen enrichment may occur from leaking gases, welding equipment, or 
oxygen lines that have not been blanked.  
 
 
OXYGEN SCALE 
 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6% 
Difficult 
breathing, 
death in 
minutes 
More than 
23% 
Oxygen 
enriched, 
extreme 
fire hazard 
16% 
Impaired 
judgement 
and 
breathing 
14% 
Faulty 
judgement, 
rapid 
fatigue 
21% 
Normal 
19.5% 
Minimum 
for safe 
entry 

 
 
 
16 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
5. 
THE PROGRAM 
 
Section 5 
5 (1) If a workplace includes a confined space that workers may enter to perform work, the 
employer shall ensure that a written program for the confined space is developed and 
maintained in accordance with this Regulation before a worker enters the confined space. 
(2)    A program described in subsection (1) may apply to one or more confined spaces. 
(3) In the case of a workplace that is not a project, the program described in subsection (1) 
shall be developed and maintained in consultation with the joint health and safety committee or 
the health and safety representative, if any. 
(4) A program described in subsection (1) shall be adequate and shall provide for, 
(a) a method for recognizing each confined space to which the program applies; 
(b) a method for assessing the hazards to which workers may be exposed, in accordance 
with section 6;  
(c) a method for the development of one or more plans, in accordance with section 7; 
(d) a method for training of workers, in accordance with section 8 or section 9.1, as the 
case may be; and 
(e) an entry permit system that sets out the measures and procedures to be followed 
when work is to be performed in a confined space to which the program applies. 
(5) In the case of a workplace that is not a project, the employer shall provide a copy of the 
program to the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any. 
(6) In the case of a workplace that is a project, the employer shall provide a copy of the 
program to the constructor, who shall provide a copy of it to the project's joint health and safety 
committee or health and safety representative, if any. 
(7) The employer or constructor, as the case may be, shall ensure that a copy of the program 
is available to, 
(a) any other employer of workers who perform work to which the program relates; and  
(b) every worker who performs work to which the program relates, if the workplace has 
no joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative. 
 
What does a confined space program include? 
 
A confined space program is a written document that includes:  a method for 
recognizing each confined space to which the program applies; a method for 
assessing the hazards to which workers may be exposed; a method for the 
development of confined space entry plans; a method for training workers; and, 
an entry permit system. 
 
A method is a process which the employer will use to implement the various 
elements of the program. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
17 
Does ‘workplace’ include a construction project? 
 
Yes, a project is also a workplace. The OHSA defines a workplace as any land, 
premises, location or thing at, upon, in or near which a worker works [Section 1 
of the OHSA]. A workplace could be a building, mine, construction site, vehicle, 
open field, road or forest. The general test is: is the worker being directed and 
paid to be there or to be near there? If the answer is “yes”, then it is a workplace.  
 
May I have an outside contractor develop a confined space program in 
order for workers to enter my confined space? 
 
Yes, you may have an outside contractor develop a confined space program for 
your workplace; however, as an employer or a contractor, you retain your 
responsibilities under the OHSA, and are ultimately accountable for the health 
and safety of all workers at your workplace. 
 
All employers who have a confined space into which workers may enter to 
perform work are required to develop and maintain a confined space program.  
Where there are multiple employers of workers in a space, then the multi-
employer provisions would apply.   
 
When a confined space is part of a construction project, which employer is 
responsible for developing and maintaining the program?  
 
Each employer of workers entering the confined space or each employer who 
contracts out entry to a confined space is responsible for ensuring compliance 
with the confined space requirements. A copy of the program or programs for the 
confined space must be developed by the employer(s) and provided to the 
constructor.  
 
Where there are multiple employers of workers who will enter a confined space 
see Section 8 of this Guideline.  
 
May I have one program for all confined spaces in my workplace? 
 
Yes, the program is intended for all confined spaces in the workplace and as 
such it is important to adequately address all confined spaces in that workplace. 
For employers with multiple locations, the Regulation does not prohibit the 
development of one program as long as it adequately addresses the confined 
spaces in each location. For all workplaces other than projects, the employer 
must consult with the joint health and safety committee (JHSC) or health and 
safety representative, if any, on the development and maintenance of the 
program for each specific workplace to which it applies.  

 
 
 
18 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
6. 
HAZARD ASSESSMENT 
 
Section 6 
6 (1) Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate 
assessment of the hazards related to the confined space has been carried out.  
(2) The assessment shall be recorded in writing and shall consider, with respect to each 
confined space, 
(a) the hazards that may exist due to the design, construction, location, use or contents of 
the confined space; and 
(b) the hazards that may develop while work is done inside the confined space. 
(3) The record of the assessment may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. 
(4) If two or more confined spaces are of similar construction and present the same hazards, 
their assessments may be recorded in a single document, but each confined space shall be 
clearly identified in the assessment. 
(5) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to 
carry out the assessment and shall maintain a record containing details of the person’s 
knowledge, training and experience. 
(6) The assessment shall contain the name of the person who carries out the assessment. 
(7) The person shall sign and date the assessment and provide it to the employer. 
(8)  On request, the employer shall provide copies of the assessment and of the record 
mentioned in subsection (5) to, 
(a) the joint health and safety committee or the project’s health and safety committee, as the 
case may be, or the health and safety representative, if any; or 
(b) every worker who performs work to which the assessment relates, if the workplace has no 
joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative. 
 
(9) The employer shall ensure that the assessment is reviewed as often as is necessary to 
ensure that the relevant plan remains adequate. 
 
 
Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an 
adequate assessment of the hazards related to the confined space has been 
carried out.  
 
The hazard assessment is not intended for the purpose of evaluating whether or 
not a space is a confined space. The assessment is intended to be carried out as 
part of the entry preparation process. It is critical to identifying the existing 
hazards of individual confined spaces, and the hazards that may develop during 
the work activity inside the confined space. In addition to assessing the 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
19 
atmospheric hazards that pose an imminent danger to workers, the employer 
should also assess other hazards present in the space.  
 
The assessment may include the following hazards: 
 Oxygen deficiency/oxygen enrichment 
 Flammable, combustible or explosive agents 
 Toxic air contaminants, smoke, fumes, and dusts  
 Residual chemicals/materials  
 Ignition hazards, including hot work, tools and other potential sources of 
ignition 
 Chemical contact hazards, including acids, alkalis 
 Physical hazards, including mechanical hazards, thermal stress, humidity 
radiation, noise and vibration, working/walking surfaces, engulfing 
materials, physical obstacles, poor visibility 
 Electrical hazards, including lines and cables, exposed terminals 
 Traffic hazards, including pedestrian, mobile equipment 
 Biological hazards, including animals and biological agents  
 Other hazards related to the confined space, including piping/distribution 
systems, pressurizing fluids, any type of uncontrolled energy (water, liquid, 
vapour, electric, magnetic, gaseous, etc.), limited access and egress 
 
A hazard assessment must be completed by a person with adequate knowledge, 
training and experience to be able to perform the assessment. This written 
assessment must be completed, signed, and dated prior to any worker entering a 
confined space. 
 
The employer must maintain a record containing details of the person’s 
knowledge, training and experience. The employer must have the assessment 
reviewed as often as necessary to ensure that the resulting plan remains 
adequate. A record of the assessment may be incorporated into the entry permit. 
 
Is a hazard assessment required for each confined space entry?  
 
The assessment must be carried out before any worker enters a confined space. 
The employer is required to ensure that the assessment is reviewed as often as 
is necessary to ensure that the relevant plan remains adequate. Therefore, an 
assessment is not needed each time a worker goes in and out of the confined 

 
 
 
20 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
space during the period to which an entry permit applies. However, the 
assessment should be repeated each time that there is a new entry permit issued 
for work to be done in a confined space.  This is because the employer must 
ensure that there are no new hazards that have developed since the last time 
that the assessment was carried out. In addition, a different work activity could 
result in different hazards.  
 
A confined space entry is described on the entry permit with respect to permit  
duration, its location and the work to be done during that entry.  The entry permit 
may include provisions for exiting the confined space and then returning back to 
it. These procedures, which could include atmospheric testing and other re-
assessment activities, should be identified on the entry permit.  
 
Where the same space is entered for the same type of work at a time not 
covered by the entry permit, the previous assessment would be useful as a 
reference. However, the only way to determine whether the hazards in the 
confined space are unchanged is to complete an assessment.  
 
Can assessments for different spaces be combined into one document? 
 
Assessments for individual confined spaces would normally be written as 
separate documents.   However, where two or more confined spaces are similar 
in construction and present the same hazards, the assessment for each specific 
confined space may be recorded in a single document. The specific confined 
space or spaces to which each assessment applies must be clearly identified in 
the assessment. 
 
Can I categorize spaces before an assessment is made?  
 
Each confined space would still require an assessment to confirm its category. 
Some workplaces have several types of confined spaces and have categorized 
them to use specific/generic controls in the plan. Each category may have 
measures and procedures to be followed to adequately protect workers for a 
confined space entry.  
 
When is a hazard assessment supposed to be completed? 
 
A hazard assessment needs to be completed, signed and dated before a worker 
enters a confined space. 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
21 
Would I comply if I hire a consultant with the adequate knowledge, training 
and experience to conduct the assessment? 
 
Yes. An employer may set out in the program that the method for assessing the 
hazards to which workers may be exposed will be conducted by a consultant with 
the adequate knowledge, training and experience.  The employer would be 
responsible for familiarizing the consultant with the process and the work to be 
performed.  In those instances where the employer had put a program in place 
and where that same employer would have called for a consultant to conduct the 
assessment, it is the responsibility of the employer to give to that consultant a 
copy of the confined space program.  
 
What should be considered in the assessment of potential atmospheric 
hazards? 
 
Identification of the potential atmospheric hazards should be done taking into 
consideration the previous contents of the space, the activities or work tasks 
within the space that could generate or stir up air contaminants and the potential 
for the sudden release of air contaminants from sources in proximity to the 
space. 

 
 
 
22 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
7. 
THE PLAN 
 
Section 7 
7 (1) Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate 
written plan, including procedures for the control of hazards identified in the assessment, has 
been developed and implemented by a competent person for the confined space.  
(2) The plan may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. 
(3) The plan shall contain provisions for, 
(a) the duties of workers; 
(b) co-ordination in accordance with section 4, if applicable; 
(c) on-site rescue procedures, in accordance with section 11; 
(d) rescue equipment and methods of communication, in accordance with section 12; 
(e) personal protective equipment, clothing and devices, in accordance with section 13; 
(f) isolation of energy and control of materials movement, in accordance with section 14 
(g) attendants, in accordance with section 15; 
(h) adequate means for entering and exiting, in accordance with section 16; 
(i) atmospheric testing, in accordance with section 18; 
(j) adequate procedures for working in the presence of explosive or flammable substances, 
in accordance with section 19; and 
(k) ventilation and purging, in accordance with section 20. 
(4) One plan may deal with two or more confined spaces that are of similar construction and 
present the same hazards as identified by the assessment. 
(5) The employer shall ensure that the plan is reviewed as often as is necessary to ensure that it 
remains adequate. 
 
What is the difference between a program and a plan? 
 
A program sets out the methods by which an employer intends to comply with the 
regulation, such as how to recognize confined spaces, how assessments will be 
carried out, how plans will be developed, how training will be delivered and what 
the entry permit system will be.  
 
A plan is a specific set of measures and procedures to control hazards identified 
by the assessment for that confined space to allow workers to enter and work in 
a specific confined space safely. The plan must include, among other things, 
provisions for on-site rescue procedures, rescue equipment and methods of 
communication (see subsection 7(3) above for all required provisions). 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
23 
Can my program replace the plan? 
 
No. The program sets out the methods and processes by which the employer 
intends to comply with the Regulation whereas the plan, which may deal with two 
or more confined spaces of similar construction and same hazards, includes 
duties of workers, equipment and procedures for the control of hazards identified 
in the assessment.  The plan for a confined space must be flexible to respond to 
the hazard assessment carried out for a specific entry; a program may not be as 
readily revised or extensive enough to deal with different situations.   
 
Are my standard operating procedures good enough to constitute a plan? 
 
It depends on the situation, since standard operating procedures may differ from 
one employer to the next. Some may include provisions for compliance with the 
program, while others may be measures and procedures to enter and would be 
more consistent with a plan. The plan for a specific confined space must be 
flexible to respond to the hazard assessment carried out for a specific entry; 
standard operating procedures often are not as readily revised or extensive 
enough to deal with different situations.  

 
 
 
24 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
8. 
COORDINATION DOCUMENT 
 
Section 4  
4(1) 
This section applies if the workers of more than one employer perform work in the 
same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space. 
(2) 
Before any worker enters the confined space or begins related work with respect to the 
confined space, the lead employer or, in the case of a project, the constructor shall prepare a 
co-ordination document to ensure that the duties imposed on employers by sections 5 to 7, 9 to 
12 and 14 to 20 are performed in a way that protects the health and safety of all workers who 
perform work in the confined space or related work with respect to the confined space.  
(3) 
Without restricting the generality of subsection (2), in the case of a workplace that is not a 
project, the co-ordination document may provide for the performance of a duty or duties 
referred to in that subsection by one or more employers on behalf of one or more other 
employers with respect to some or all of the workers. 
(4) 
A copy of the co-ordination document shall be provided to, 
(a) each employer of workers who perform work in the same confined space or related 
work with respect to the same confined space;  
(b) in the case of a workplace that is not a project, the joint health and safety committee 
or health and safety representative, if any, for each employer of workers who perform 
work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined 
space; and 
(c)  in the case of a workplace that is a project, the joint health and safety committee or 
health and safety representative, if any, for the project. 
 
The multi-employer section of the confined spaces provisions does not diminish 
employer duties under the OHSA. It is intended to ensure that employers of 
workers working in a confined space are aware of potential or existing hazards 
that may be introduced by one or the other employer, and that there is 
communication between the employers in order to ensure worker safety. This 
section is also intended to reduce duplication with respect to requirements such 
as assessment, plan, and entry permits. However, this sharing of tasks does not 
diminish an employer’s duty to ensure compliance with the Confined Spaces 
Regulation.     
 
The coordination document does not allow for the sharing of responsibilities for 
general training, personal protective equipment and records.   
 
Is a coordination document required where my workers will not enter a 
space, and only the workers of one contractor will be performing work in 
the confined space? 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
25 
No, the coordination document is only required where workers of more than one 
employer perform work in the same confined space or related work with respect 
to the same confined space. Workers may be working in the space at the same 
time, or consecutively.  
 
“Related work” is defined by the Regulation, as “work that is performed near a 
confined space in direct support of work inside the confined space”. 
 
Who is responsible for the confined space entry if the employer contracts 
the job out to a contractor or several contractors? 
 
An employer may decide to contract out work to those with specific expertise; 
however, an employer cannot contract out its duties as an employer under the 
OHSA or its regulations. The employer must ensure that the workers work in 
compliance with the confined spaces requirements. 
 
Who is responsible for the coordination document? 
 
The coordination document must be prepared by the “lead employer” or in the 
case of a project, the constructor. The “lead employer” as defined by the 
Regulation, is an employer who contracts for the services of one or more other 
employers or independent contractors in relation to one or more confined spaces 
that are located either in the lead employer’s workplace or in another employer’s 
workplace.  
 
On a construction project, the constructor is responsible for the preparation of the 
coordination document if workers of more than one employer performs work in 
the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined 
space on a construction project. 
 
The coordination document must ensure that employer duties with respect to the 
following subject matters are performed in a way that protects the health and 
safety of all workers who perform work in the confined space or related work with 
respect to the confined space:  
(a) 
confined space program; 
(b) 
hazard assessment; 
(c) 
written plan; 
(d) 
plan-specific training  or training- projects, as applicable 
(e) 
entry permits; 

 
 
 
26 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
(f) 
written on-site rescue procedures, rescue equipment and methods 
of communication; 
(g) 
isolation of energy and control of materials movement; 
(h) 
attendants; 
(i) 
entering and exiting; 
(j) 
unauthorized entry; 
(k) 
atmospheric testing;  
(l) 
explosive and flammable substances; and 
(m) 
ventilation and purging of atmospheric hazards.  

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
27 
9. 
TRAINING 
 
 
For all workplaces that are not projects, there are two sections focused on 
training: 1) hazard recognition and other general training, and 2) plan-specific 
training. Training requirements on construction projects are contained in a 
separate section (s.9.1) under the Confined Spaces Regulation. 
 
Section 8: Hazard Recognition and other general training – workplaces other than 
projects 
8(0.1) This section does not apply to workplaces that are projects.  
(1) Every worker who enters a confined space or who performs related work shall be given 
adequate training for safe work practices for working in confined spaces and for performing 
related work, including training in the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces. 
(2) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to 
conduct the training. 
(3) The employer shall ensure that training under this section is developed in consultation 
with the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any. 
(4) The employer shall ensure that training under this section is reviewed, in consultation with 
the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any, whenever 
there is a change in circumstances that may affect the safety of a worker who enters a 
confined space in the workplace, and in any case at least once annually. 
(5) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who 
received training under this section, the nature of the training and the date when it was 
provided. 
(6) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. 
(7) Training under this section may be combined with training under section 9. 
 
Section 9: Plan-Specific Training – workplaces other than projects 
9(0.1) This section does not apply to workplaces that are projects. 
(1) The employer shall ensure that every worker who enters a confined space or who 
performs related work, 
(a) 
receives adequate training, in accordance with the relevant plan, to work safely and 
properly; and 
(b) 
follows the plan. 
(2) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who 
received training under this section, and the date when it was provided. 
(3) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. 
(4) Training under this section may be combined with training under section 8. 

 
 
 
28 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
Section 9.1: Training - projects 
9.1(1) This section applies only to workplaces that are projects. 
(2) The employer shall ensure that every worker who enters a confined space or who 
performs related work receives adequate training to perform the work safely, in accordance 
with the relevant plan. 
(3) Training under subsection (2) shall include training in, 
(a) 
the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces; and 
(b) 
safe work practices for working in confined spaces and for performing related work. 
(4) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who 
received training under this section and the date when it was provided. 
(5) The employer shall provide the training records under subsection (4) to the project’s joint 
health and safety committee or health and safety representative, if any, on request.  
(6) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section10 
 
 
What training will be required in order to enter confined spaces? 
 
Every worker who works in a confined space must receive adequate training in 
the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces and training to be 
able to safely perform the assigned duties for that specific confined space. 
Training is also required for persons contributing to the work activity (i.e., 
performs related work) even those not entering the confined space, for example, 
attendants and rescue workers. 
 
Rescue personnel require training in on-site rescue procedures, first aid and 
cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and the use of the specific rescue equipment 
required. On-site rescue procedures should be practiced so as to ensure a high 
level of proficiency.  
 
Giving instructions to a confined space worker does not ensure that the worker is 
competent to safely perform work. Hands-on training should be an essential part 
of the confined space training. In cases where a worker is new to the job and 
does not have sufficient experience, one effective means of ensuring the new 
worker obtains adequate experience and training would be to have the worker 
teamed up with more experienced workers. 
 
Every worker that enters a confined space must be adequately trained in 
accordance with the plan. Elements of the plan may include but are not 
necessarily limited to the following: 
 Recognition and identification of potential hazards associated with the 
confined spaces that will be entered.  

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
29 
 Evaluation and control procedures for the identified or potential 
hazards.  
 All equipment such as ventilation equipment (blowers), harnesses and 
air quality monitors (e.g., Oxygen/combustible meters) that will be used 
while in the confined space.  
 All personal protective equipment (e.g., respirators) that the worker will 
be using while in the confined space.  
 All procedures for entering the confined space.   
 Procedures to follow in the event of a situation developing that could 
present additional risk to the worker or an emergency.  
 The specific work to be done while in the confined space. 
 
Workers with emergency rescue responsibilities will need training related to the 
rescue.  
 
All confined space training should include some hands-on training with the safety 
equipment including the personal protective equipment and safety harnesses.  
 
Although records of training must be kept, they may be recorded on the entry 
permit by incorporating the record into the permit, which also must be kept. 
 
Do I have to provide refresher training?  
 
Refresher training is not specifically required in the Confined Spaces Regulation, 
but for a workplace that is not a project, a review of training is required on an 
annual basis and whenever there is a change in circumstances that may affect 
the safety of a worker who enters a confined space in the workplace, such as a 
change in process or hazard assessment. A review is not the same as providing 
annual training. 
 
However, the employer must ensure that the confined space training is adequate. 
Where the review determines the training not to be adequate, additional training 
should be provided. Refresher training at intervals determined by the specific 
conditions of the workplace may be needed. 
 
May I purchase a training program or contract it out? 
 
The hazard recognition and general part of the training could be purchased or 
contracted out. However, this training might need to be supplemented by plan 

 
 
 
30 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
specific training to ensure the workers are adequately trained. If any training is 
contracted out, it remains the responsibility of the employer to ensure the 
adequacy of the training delivered to the workers.  
 
May I use web-based training? 
 
Web-based training could be part of your training. However, the training may be 
supplemented with the plan-specific training. Regardless of the source of training 
or how it is provided to workers, the employer has the duty to ensure it is 
adequate to protect the health and safety of the workers who work in or around 
the confined space.  
 
Does a trainer or a training organisation have to be certified to provide 
confined space training? 
 
No. There is no certification process for trainers, workers, training programs or 
agencies at this time.  It is up to the employer, in consultation with the JHSC or 
health and safety representative, if any, to determine the level and type of 
training provided, and to ensure it is adequate for the type of entry being 
conducted.  

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
31 
10. ENTRY PERMIT 
 
Section 10 
10. (1) The employer shall ensure that a separate entry permit is issued each time work is to be 
performed in a confined space, before any worker enters the confined space. 
(2) An entry permit shall be adequate and shall include at least the following: 
1. 
The location of the confined space. 
2. 
A description of the work to be performed there. 
3. 
A description of the hazards and the corresponding control measures. 
4. 
The time period for which the entry permit applies. 
5. 
The name of the attendant described in section 15. 
6. 
A record of each worker’s entries and exits. 
7. 
A list of the equipment required for entry and rescue, and verification that the 
equipment is in good working order. 
8. 
Results obtained in atmospheric testing under section 18. 
9. 
If the work to be performed in the confined space includes hot work, adequate 
provisions for the hot work and corresponding control measures. 
(3) Before each shift, a competent person shall verify that the entry permit complies with the 
relevant plan. 
(4) The employer shall ensure that the entry permit, during the time period for which it applies, is 
readily available to every person who enters the confined space and to every person who 
performs related work with respect to the confined space. 
 
The purpose of the entry permit is to communicate to workers the hazards that 
have been identified and the controls that are in place, before any worker enters 
the confined space or performs related work with respect to the confined space.  
 
Certain safeguards that normally protect the worker may have to be removed or 
altered when repair or maintenance work is performed. When this occurs, the 
hazards involved need to be identified and a safe work system developed to 
eliminate or control these hazards. A permit is a document that, among other 
things, identifies the work to be done, the hazard(s) involved, and the precautions 
taken.  
 
Entry is the action by which a person passes through an opening into a confined 
space. It is considered to have occurred as soon as any part of the entrant’s 
body breaks the plane of an opening into the confined space, and includes 
ensuing work activities in that space.  
 

 
 
 
32 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
When do I need an entry permit? 
 
A separate entry permit is to be issued each time work is to be performed in a 
confined space and before any worker enters the confined space. 
 
What if there are multiple entries for a limited duration, for the one job? Do 
we have to have a permit for each entry? 
 
The permit requirements and duration for which the permit is valid are based on 
the hazard assessment conducted and the plan developed. The permit may be 
linked to each entry-task whose duration and criteria are specified in the plan and 
on the permit.  
 
On a multiple worker entry where there is more than one employer, can 
there be only one entry permit/attendant if identified that way in the 
coordination document? 
 
Yes, on a multiple worker entry where there is more than one employer, there 
can be one entry permit/attendant if identified that way in the coordination 
document. 
 
Does an entry permit need to be signed? 
 
Although there is no requirement for a signature, the permit must be verified by a 
competent person before each shift. As a good due diligence practice, it would 
be reasonable to have this verification documented by signature, and the entry 
permit would be a logical place to document this. 
 
Does an entry permit have to be posted at the entrance of the confined 
space? 
 
No.  However, the permit must be readily available to every person involved in 
the confined space activity and this would include knowledge of the permit’s 
location.  
 
What is a record of entry and exit? 
 
The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that there is information about those 
who enter the space and leave the space. It is not meant to require a sign-in and 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
33 
out for every minor exit required to work in the space, such as leaving 
momentarily to obtain a nearby tool. The method of recording shall be as set out 
in the employer’s program. 
 
May I have one entry permit to cover workers entering two or more 
confined spaces, which are similar in construction and present the same 
hazards? 
 
Each confined space must have its own, separate entry permit. For municipalities 
dealing with manhole entries, the employer must assess if each manhole entry is 
a separate confined space or if in fact each manhole is simply a separate 
entrance to the same confined space. This will depend on the hazard 
assessment and relevant plan. 

 
 
 
34 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
11. ISOLATION OF ENERGY AND CONTROL OF MATERIALS 
MOVEMENT 
 
Section 14 
14. The employer shall, in accordance with the relevant plan, ensure that each worker entering a 
confined space is adequately protected, 
(a) against the release of hazardous substances into the confined space,  
(i) by blanking or disconnecting piping, or 
(ii) if compliance with subclause (i) is not practical in the circumstances for technical 
reasons, by other adequate means; 
(b) against contact with electrical energy inside the confined space that could endanger the 
worker,  
(i) by disconnecting, de-energizing, locking out and tagging the source of electrical 
energy, or  
(ii) if compliance with subclause (i) is not practical in the circumstances for technical 
reasons, by other adequate means; 
(c) against contact with moving parts of equipment inside the confined space that could 
endanger the worker,  
(i) by disconnecting the equipment from its power source, de-energizing the equipment, 
locking it out and tagging it, or  
(ii) if compliance with subclause (i) is not practical in the circumstances for technical 
reasons, by immobilizing the equipment by blocking or other adequate means; and 
(d) against drowning, engulfment, entrapment, suffocation and other hazards from free-
flowing material, by adequate means. 
 
 
What is meant by “isolation of energy”?  
 
Workers must be protected against any hazards associated with the moving 
parts of equipment or electrical energy inside the confined space by ensuring that 
they are de-energized or otherwise controlled.  
 
What is meant by “control of materials movement”? 
 
The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that no material or contaminants 
enters or moves within the confined space through process lines, drains, vents, 
etc. In addition, employers need to protect workers against any collapse or shift 
of material. 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
35 
What is meant by “blanking or disconnecting piping”? 
 
The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that no material or contaminants 
enters the confined space through process lines, drains, vents, etc.  
 
Blanking is the insertion of a solid metal barrier, called a blank, between the 
flanges of two sections of pipe. In this instance the confined space extends to the 
blank. Disconnecting is the removal of a section of piping to ensure that no 
material can flow into the confined space. Note that care must be taken to ensure 
that high-pressure or toxic material cannot pass across the disconnected space – 
for example, high pressure steam can cross between the sections of pipe if the 
piece that has been removed is in-line with the two sections of pipe. (In this 
instance, the section removed should be an elbow or other fitting to ensure that 
the two sections of pipe are not in line). 
 
What is an example of “other adequate means”? 
 
If blanking and disconnecting is not practical in the circumstances for technical 
reasons, then “other adequate means” can be taken. This may include such 
measures as a double-block and bleed system or the formation of a properly 
engineered “freeze plug”, depending on how much protection they actually 
provide, i.e. the measures must be “adequate”. 
 
The type of substances that may enter the space from piping, drains, vents, etc. 
would also be a significant factor in determining adequacy and what other means 
may be taken. For example, a single isolating valve to prevent the flow of toxic 
substances (e.g., poisonous gas) and substances that may pose a drowning, 
engulfment, or entrapment hazard, is not adequate, but a double-block and bleed 
system may be adequate. 
 
In addition, although locking out isolated valves is not specifically referenced in 
the confined space provisions, it could be a reasonable precaution that could be 
taken, and should be considered depending upon the substances that may enter 
the space.  
 
Do all moving parts of equipment inside a confined space need to be de-
energized? 
 
No, only equipment that could endanger a worker, such as unguarded 
equipment, or equipment that may have exposed moving parts or that may 
create a pinch point, require de-energizing or blocking to prevent movement. For 
example, a properly guarded pump or fan would generally not need to be de-
energized.  However, in a confined space in which flammable, combustible or 

 
 
 
36 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
explosive agents might accumulate, the same equipment would be de-energized 
or designed so that it does not create a spark. 
 
What other means could be used to protect workers from contact with 
electrical energy? 
 
Measures could include the installation of temporary barriers or shields or, if not 
practicable, the provision of adequate personal protective equipment. 
 
Note: CSA Standard Z460 Control of Hazardous Energy – Lockout & Other 
Methods may be considered when developing best practices to comply with this 
section. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
37 
12. ATMOSPHERIC TESTING 
 
Section 18 
18 (1) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience 
to perform adequate tests as often as necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space 
to ensure that acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space in accordance 
with the relevant plan. 
(2) If the confined space has been both unoccupied and unattended, tests shall be performed 
before a worker enters or re-enters.  
(3) The person performing the tests shall use calibrated instruments that are in good working 
order and are appropriate for the hazards identified in the relevant assessment. 
(4) The employer shall ensure that the results of every sample of a test are recorded, subject to 
subsection (5). 
(5) If the tests are performed using continuous monitoring, the employer shall ensure that test 
results are recorded at adequate intervals.  
(6) The tests shall be performed in a manner that does not endanger the health or safety of the 
person performing them. 
(7) In this section, 
“sample” means an individual reading of the composition of the atmosphere in the confined 
space; 
“test” means a collection of samples. 
 
(Refer to the flow charts on Atmospheric Hazards at the end of this Section)  
 
When is it necessary to conduct atmospheric testing? 
 
The plan must contain provisions for atmospheric testing. The testing must be 
done as often as necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space. 
The atmospheric hazards of concern include oxygen content outside the 
acceptable range of 19.5 to 23%, the potential accumulation of flammable, 
combustible, or explosive agents, or accumulation of atmospheric contaminants.  
 
Who is responsible for performing atmospheric testing and for what 
reasons? 
 
The employer must appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and 
experience to perform adequate tests. The testing is required as often as 
necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space to ensure that 
acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space in 
accordance with the relevant plan.   
 

 
 
 
38 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
What are some of the requirements of atmospheric testing?  
 
Representative sampling should take into consideration the presence of stratified 
atmospheres and pockets of contaminated air within the confined space.  The 
selection of testing equipment will depend on the circumstances of the confined 
space, the nature of the work within the space, and knowledge of possible 
atmospheric hazards. Whenever practical, continuous monitoring should be 
considered.  Equipment performance characteristics to be considered include, 
but are not limited to: principle of detection of the hazards of concern, specificity, 
interferences, detection concentration range, response time, calibration 
requirements, and intrinsically safe equipment for spaces with potential 
accumulation of flammable hazards.  
 
All workers involved with confined space entry should be trained to understand 
the testing results, in accordance with the relevant plan. 
 
What is meant by “calibrated instruments that are in good working order 
and are appropriate for the hazards identified in the relevant assessment”? 
 
Instruments used for measuring atmospheric hazards should be calibrated as per 
manufacturers’ requirements. The testing instrument must be selected and 
calibrated for the specific atmospheric hazards likely to be present in the space 
as identified in the relevant assessment.  Equipment maintenance and calibration 
records should be kept. 
 
May I use general survey instruments for atmospheric testing? 
 
Yes, but for general survey instruments with sensors that respond to many 
different chemicals with similar properties, the person performing the tests and 
the users of test results need to understand the specificity and relative response 
characteristics of the instrument for proper interpretation of results.  For example, 
a combustible gas instrument that uses pentane as the calibration gas will 
measure other combustible gases such as methane with a different response 
characteristic. In this case, the actual concentration of methane will be 
determined by applying a correction factor to the readout of the instrument.   
 
When the exposure is to an unknown mixture of atmospheric contaminants or 
combustible gases, the testing results need to be interpreted by a person with 
adequate knowledge, training and experience about the confined space hazards 
of concern and the testing equipment. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
39 
When is continuous monitoring required? 
 
Continuous monitoring is required:   
o when performing hot work in a confined space that contains or is likely 
to contain an explosive or flammable gas or vapour. 
o when the atmosphere in the confined space has been rendered inert 
by adding an inert gas, or 
o as set out in the confined space plan. 
 
When using continuous monitoring equipment, which may have data 
logging capability, are records required for test results?   
 
Even though a continuous monitor may have data logging capability, results must 
still be recorded at adequate intervals as determined by the plan, above and 
beyond the data logging printout or electronic storage. This ensures that workers 
are actually aware of the levels they are encountering and aware of any 
fluctuation that may be occurring in order to warn them of any unusual conditions 
as they develop. Monitors may have alarms; however, depending at what level 
they are set, they may not give the workers adequate warning of fluctuations or 
increases in atmospheric levels that should be investigated.  
 
What is the required frequency for recording atmospheric test results? 
 
The frequency of recording test results is determined by the confined space plan, 
based on the potential for accumulation and possible fluctuations of the 
atmospheric hazards as determined by the assessment.   
 
What are the requirements for record keeping? 
 
In general, the employer must retain atmospheric testing records for the longer of 
the following periods: one year after the document is created; or, the period that 
is necessary to ensure that at least the two most recent records of each kind that 
relate to a particular confined space are retained. For confined spaces with multi-
employer involvement, the constructor or employer (as the case may be) 
responsible for creating the record shall retain the record. On construction 
projects, the records must be kept by the constructor or employer (as the case 
may be) for at least one year after the project is finished.    

 
 
ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS AND ATMOSPHERIC TESTING 
 
Assess hazards, including atmospheric hazards that may 
exist or be created in the confined space 
Determine appropriate testing procedure, select 
and calibrate appropriate testing device 
Test for levels of oxygen, flammable, combustible and 
explosive agents and toxic substances  
Can acceptable atmospheric levels be achieved and 
maintained, with or without purging and ventilating? 
Are flammable, 
combustible or 
explosive agents 
present? 
Achieve and maintain 
acceptable 
atmospheric levels.  
Purge and ventilate if 
necessary. 
Can confined 
space be 
rendered inert? 
 
40 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
Enter with appropriate 
precautions, 
respiratory protection 
and equipment 
ENTRY NOT 
PERMITTED 
Render inert 
and monitor 
Are flammable, 
combustible or 
explosive agents 
present? 
Enter, test per 
plan and 
maintain records 
Go to 
Chart 2 
YES 
YES 
YES 
NO 
NO
NO
YES 
Is combustible 
dust airborne, 
creating a 
hazard of 
explosion?? 
A 
A 
NO 
YES
NO 
Chart 1 
Decision tree for 
confined space entry 

 
 
 
 
From 
Chart 1 
Concentration of flammable or 
explosive gas or vapour 
<5% LEL 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
41 
HOT WORK 
PERMITTED 
Concentration of  oxygen 
<23 % 
HOT WORK NOT 
PERMITTED 
YES
YES
Concentration of 
flammable or explosive gas 
or vapour 
<10% LEL 
COLD WORK 
PERMITTED 
COLD WORK 
NOT PERMITTED 
NO 
Concentration of flammable 
or explosive gas or vapour 
<25% LEL 
INSPECTION 
PERMITTED 
ENTRY NOT 
PERMITTED 
NO 
YES
YES
Chart 2  
Decision tree for work in flammable or 
explosive gas or vapour 
NO 
NO 

 
 
 
42 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
13. VENTILATION AND PURGING 
 
 
Section 20 
20 (1) This section applies only in respect of atmospheric hazards described in clause (b) or (c) 
of the definition of “atmospheric hazards” in section 1. 
(2) If atmospheric hazards exist or are likely to exist in a confined space, the confined space 
shall be purged, ventilated or both, before any worker enters it, to ensure that acceptable 
atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space while any worker is inside. 
(3) If mechanical ventilation is required to maintain acceptable atmospheric levels, an adequate 
warning system and exit procedure shall also be provided to ensure that workers have adequate 
warning of ventilation failure and are able to exit the confined space safely. 
(4) If compliance with subsection (2) is not practical in the circumstances for technical reasons, 
(a) 
compliance with subsection (3) is not required; and 
(b) 
a worker entering the confined space shall use, 
(i) 
adequate respiratory protective equipment, 
(ii) 
adequate equipment to allow persons outside the confined space to locate and 
rescue the worker if necessary, and 
(iii) 
such other equipment as is necessary to ensure the worker’s safety. 
(5) The equipment mentioned in subclauses (4) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) shall be inspected by a 
person with adequate knowledge, training and experience, appointed by the employer, and shall 
be in good working order before the worker enters the confined space. 
 
What is the difference between “purging” and “ventilating”? 
 
“Purging” involves removing contaminants inside the confined space by 
displacement with air to achieve acceptable atmospheric levels. For example, if a 
confined space originally contained a toxic gas, air would be blown into the space 
to reduce the concentration of the toxic gas to below the appropriate atmospheric 
exposure level. 
 
After the contaminants have been removed (“purged”), the confined space may 
be ventilated.   
 
“Ventilation” means the continuous provision of fresh air into the confined space 
by mechanical means to maintain acceptable atmospheric levels. It must be 
continued while work is being carried out within the space, to maintain an 
acceptable oxygen concentration, to provide protection in case of accidental 
release of chemicals, to remove contaminants generated by the work performed, 
or to cool the enclosure. 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
43 
Ventilation involves displacing air and diluting it through the introduction of fresh 
air (forced-air) or the continuous removal of contaminants by local exhaust 
ventilation for point sources. To ensure adequate ventilation, the points of air 
supply and exhaust should be separated as far as possible. Openings must be 
provided for the entry of clean replacement air or to allow the exhaust of air. Pure 
oxygen must not be used to ventilate a confined space.  
 
What is “inerting”? 
 
“Inerting” is a special form of purging and ventilating. Inerting involves purging 
oxygen from a confined space using an inert gas (such as nitrogen, carbon 
dioxide or argon) to remove the hazard of fire or explosion. The concentration of 
oxygen is decreased to below the level that can support combustion. Following 
the purging operation the oxygen concentration is continuously monitored and 
the confined space may be ventilated using the inert gas to ensure that the 
concentration of oxygen does not increase. The inert gases will create an unsafe 
atmosphere (oxygen deficiency) and therefore workers entering the confined 
space should use appropriate supplied air-respirators. 
 
What is an “adequate warning system” to signal failure of mechanical 
ventilation? 
 
The warning system must be adequate, which is defined in the Confined Spaces 
Regulation as “sufficient for both its intended and its actual use, and sufficient to 
protect a worker from occupational illness or occupational injury”.  The warning 
system may signal ventilation failure through audible or visual means, where a 
warning system is required by the Regulation.  The type used must be outlined in 
the plan and it could be as simple as constant visual observation of flow by the 
attendant.  
 
If electronic or electrical warning systems for ventilation failure are used, they 
should be activated by the loss of airflow and be located in the air stream. This is 
so that the alarm would be activated both when there is ventilation failure due to 
motor failure, and when there is ventilation failure without motor failure (for 
example, if the fan belt fails or if the airflow is somehow blocked).  
 
What is an example of “an adequate warning system” to indicate 
ventilation failure? 
 
A warning system could be an audible or visual alarm, or both, that indicates that 
the ventilation has failed. The alarm should be activated by a flow or pressure 
switch in the air stream rather than by electrical failure or other motive power 

 
 
 
44 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
failure. A pressure or flow switch would ensure that if the fan belt fails, for 
example or the airflow is somehow blocked, the alarm is activated. 
 
ACCEPTABLE ATMOSPHERIC LEVELS  
 
Section 1: Definitions 
1. In this Regulation, 
“acceptable atmospheric levels” means that, 
 (a) the atmospheric concentration of any explosive or flammable gas or vapour is less than, 
(i) 25 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 1 of subsection  19(4)  applies, 
(ii) 10 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 2 of subsection 19(4) applies, 
(iii) 5 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 3 of subsection 19(4) applies, 
(b) the oxygen content of the atmosphere is at least 19.5 per cent but not more than 23 per 
cent by volume, and 
(c) in the case of a workplace that is not a project, the exposure to atmospheric 
contaminants does not exceed any applicable level set out in Regulation 833 of the 
Revised Regulations of Ontario, 1990 (Control of Exposure to Biological or Chemical 
Agents) made under the Act or Ontario Regulation 490/09 (Designated Substances) 
made under the Act, and 
(d) in the case of a workplace that is a project, if atmospheric contaminants, including gases, 
vapours, fumes, dusts or mists, are present, their concentrations do not exceed what is 
reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health and safety of workers; 
 
Why is the definition of “acceptable atmospheric levels” for construction 
projects worded differently from the other workplaces?  
 
Different requirements may apply on a construction project due to the nature of 
the work. Construction projects are exempt from the Regulation for Control of 
Exposure to Biological or Chemical Agents (Reg. 833) and the Designated 
Substances Regulation (O. Reg.490/09). Clause (d) of the definition of 
“acceptable atmospheric levels” in the Confined Spaces Regulation applies to 
construction projects and exposures to atmospheric contaminants must not 
exceed what is reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health 
and safety of workers. 
 
How are acceptable atmospheric levels related to atmospheric hazards? 
 
Atmospheric hazards are considered to determine if a space is a confined space.  
Acceptable atmospheric levels are those levels that must be maintained when a 
worker is in a confined space in order to prevent occupational illness or injury. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
45 
14. HOT WORK 
 
 
What is “hot work”? 
 
“Hot work” is work that could produce a source of ignition, such as a spark or 
open flame. Examples of hot work include welding, cutting, grinding and the use 
of non-explosion proof electrical equipment. 
 
What is “cold work”? 
 
“Cold work” is work that cannot produce a source of ignition. Examples of cold 
work include valve adjustment and brush painting. 
 
What precautions are required to perform hot work in the presence of a 
combustible dust or mist? 
 
The space should be ventilated or purged to reduce the combustible dust or mist 
airborne concentration to a level below that which may create a hazard of 
explosion. 
 
If ventilation or purging cannot reduce the combustible dust or mist airborne 
concentration to a level below that which may create a hazard of explosion, the 
space must be rendered inert by adding an inert gas and be continuously 
monitored to ensure the atmosphere remains inert. Workers must wear adequate 
respiratory protective equipment and adequate equipment to allow persons 
outside the confined space to locate and rescue them, if necessary. 
 
What precautions are required to perform hot work in the presence of an 
explosive or flammable gas or vapour? 
 
In order to perform hot work in the presence of an explosive or flammable gas or 
vapour, the following precautions must be taken:  
a) The space is purged and continuously ventilated to maintain an 
atmosphere of less than 5% of the LEL; 
b) The space is purged and continuously ventilated to maintain an oxygen 
concentration of less than 23%; 

 
 
 
46 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
c) The atmosphere in the confined space is continuously monitored; 
d) The entry permit includes adequate provisions for hot work and details 
the appropriate measures to be taken; and 
e) An adequate warning system and exit procedure are in place to 
provide adequate warning and allow safe escape if the levels in a) 
or b) above are exceeded. It is good practice to incorporate a safety 
factor that provides for adequate warning should the levels be 
approached.  
 
Alternately, the space must be rendered safe by inerting with an inert gas and 
continuously monitoring the atmosphere, particularly with regard to oxygen 
concentration. Workers must wear adequate respiratory protective equipment 
and equipment to allow persons outside the confined space to locate and rescue 
them, if necessary.   
 
May I perform hot work in a confined space if there are no flammable 
gases, vapours or dusts present?  
 
Yes, as long as all the appropriate measures for confined space entry have been 
taken. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
47 
15. ON-SITE RESCUE PROCEDURES AND EQUIPMENT 
 
 
Section 11 
 (1) The employer shall ensure that no worker enters or remains in a confined space unless, in 
accordance with the relevant plan, adequate written on-site rescue procedures that apply to the 
confined space have been developed and are ready for immediate implementation.  
(2) Before a worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate 
number of persons trained in the matters listed in subsection (3) are available for immediate 
implementation of the on-site rescue procedures mentioned in subsection (1). 
(3) The persons shall be trained in, 
(a) the on-site rescue procedures mentioned in subsection (1); 
(b) first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation; and 
(c) the use of the rescue equipment required in accordance with the relevant plan. 
 
Section 12 
 (1) The employer shall ensure that the rescue equipment identified in the relevant plan is, 
(a) readily available to effect a rescue in the confined space; 
(b) appropriate for entry into the confined space; and 
(c) inspected as often as is necessary to ensure it is in good working order, by a person 
with adequate knowledge, training and experience who is appointed by the employer. 
(2) The inspection under clause (1) (c) shall be recorded in writing by the person, and the record 
of the inspection may be incorporated into the entry permit under section 10]. 
(3) The employer shall establish methods of communication that are appropriate for the hazards 
identified in the relevant assessment, and shall make them readily available for workers to 
communicate with the attendant described in section 15. 
 
An employer has made a decision to treat certain spaces that do not meet 
the confined space definition in the same way as required for confined 
spaces.  Will the MOL enforce the on-site rescue requirements in this 
situation? 
 
Ministry inspectors enforce the provisions of the OHSA and its regulations, not 
company policies.  If a space does not meet the definition of a confined space in 
the Regulation, it would not be subject to the confined space requirements 
contained within it, including the on-site rescue provisions. Employers would still 
need to comply with relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable, and take 
every precaution reasonable in the circumstance to protect workers working on, 
in, or near these spaces.  
 

 
 
 
48 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
May we contract out rescue services? 
 
Yes. However, depending upon the hazard assessment and risks involved, this 
might not be an adequate rescue plan. The hazards must be assessed and an 
adequate timely response must be ensured based on the potential hazard facing 
a worker. For example, in the event that workers are in danger in the confined 
space, a timely emergency removal system would be the difference in minutes 
that make it a rescue rather than retrieval. Rescue personnel must be available 
for immediate implementation of the on-site rescue procedures. 
 
If choosing to contract out, the employer retains the duty to ensure training 
of the contracted rescue personnel and the appropriate use of personal 
protection continues.  
 
What rescue equipment can we use? 
 
The equipment to use will be dependent upon the hazards in the confined space, 
and the relevant plan. Examples of safety equipment include harnesses and 
lifelines, hoist/retrieval systems, self-contained breathing apparatus, airline 
respirators, and other personal protective equipment.  
 
It is of paramount importance when choosing the equipment to be used in a 
rescue situation, to take into account the dimensions of the entry/exit points to 
the confined space, that they should be compatible with the dimensions of the 
rescue equipment and rescue procedures.  
 
What does “immediate implementation” of on-site rescue procedures 
mean?  
 
The employer is responsible for developing a plan and ensuring that an adequate 
number of persons trained in certain rescue matters are available for immediate 
implementation of the on-site rescue procedures, before a worker enters a 
confined space.  The plan, including the on-site rescue procedures, is based on 
the nature of the hazards identified during the assessment of that confined space 
and must adequately protect the health and safety of all workers who work in 
confined spaces or perform related work.  The plan will indicate whether the “on-
site rescue team” should be assembled at the point of entry of the confined 
space or whether team members may be located elsewhere on the premise or 
project.  In either case the team must be immediately available, meaning that it is 
ready and available to respond to an emergency situation at a confined space.  
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
49 
The on-site rescue procedures required for a space is independent of whether 
multiple entries will occur. Thus, changes to what was originally considered as 
adequate on-site rescue procedures for a space, in order to fulfill multiple 
simultaneous entries, may no longer be adequate. For example, if one team was 
in the process of implementing on-site rescue procedures for one space, they are 
no longer available for immediate implementation of on-site rescue procedures at 
another confined space. In these cases, a rescue plan should also include 
mechanisms for notifying the attendant that evacuation of that space will be 
undertaken until on-site rescue procedures can be implemented immediately 
again, i.e., when the rescue team is immediately available to respond.  
 
Where do rescue personnel have to be located?  
 
Rescue personnel must be available and ready to immediately implement the 
written on-site rescue procedures should a rescue be required as per the plan.  
 
May we use 911 emergency services as our “on-site rescue”? 
 
No, calling 911 as your rescue plan is not considered to be an “on-site rescue 
procedure” which can be “ready for immediate implementation” for the purpose of 
rescuing a worker from a confined space. Emergency services do not replace the 
requirement for on-site rescue procedures. 
 
Employers remain solely responsible for ensuring that there are adequate on-site 
rescue procedures that are ready for immediate implementation in order to 
effectively remove a worker who has been overcome in a confined space. 
 
May the rescue team enter the confined space to effect a rescue rather than 
retrieve the injured worker from outside of the confined space? 
 
Yes. The confined space entry plan must be provided with on-site rescue 
procedures as determined by the hazards for that confined space. In some 
cases, these may have to be performed from outside the space; however, in 
some other scenarios the rescue personnel may need to enter the space. If entry 
is required to perform a rescue, rescue personnel must be properly protected and 
trained against all hazards within the confined space. 
 

 
 
 
50 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
May the attendant become part of the rescue team once a rescue has been 
activated? 
 
No, not unless the attendant has been replaced by another person 
knowledgeable in attendant duties. During a rescue, an attendant must remain in 
place stationed outside and near the entrance to the confined space. The 
attendant may assist the rescue as long as the work does not impede the 
attendant’s duties.  
 
What training do on-site rescue workers require? 
 
In addition to general confined space training, etc., the employer must ensure 
that an adequate number of on-site rescue workers have the following training: 
 First aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation;  
 On-site rescue procedures in accordance with  the relevant plan; and  
 Use of the rescue equipment required by the relevant plan.  
 
Not all members of the team might need to have all three elements of training so 
long as the team as a whole has the adequate training. The amount of training 
required by each individual member of the team will depend on the particular 
situation and plan. 
 
What level of first aid training and rescue procedure training is required? 
 
The regulation does not define the level of training required. However employers 
are required to determine the level of training required based on the assessment 
and the relevant plan and the written on-site rescue procedures. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
51 
16. MEANS OF ENTERING AND EXITING 
 
 
Section 16 
16. An adequate means for entering and exiting shall be provided for all workers who enter a 
confined space, in accordance with the relevant plan. 
 
What are examples of means of entry or exit? 
 
Also known as ‘access and egress’, the purpose of this section is to ensure that 
employers provide for safe exit and entry as per the plan. For example, well 
secured ladders or other suitable means should be provided where necessary to 
give ready entry and exit. 
 
In addition, the size of entry and exit areas should be considered when choosing 
personal protective equipment (PPE) to be used by the workers entering and 
exiting the confined space openings. The same considerations should be made 
when setting up rescue procedures and choosing rescue workers’ personal 
protective equipment PPE and rescue equipment.   
 
For example, it is recommended that a manhole should be at least 24 inches in 
diameter as the minimum safe diameter for entry; hinged covers, doors, etc., 
should be provided with a means whereby they can be locked in the open 
position.  For any situation where an opening for entry is less than 24 inches in 
diameter, the employer should consider current applicable standards, if any, and 
outline in the plan the appropriate PPE and rescue equipment that would be 
necessary for adequate entry and exit for the specific space. 
 

 
 
 
52 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
17. PREVENTING UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY 
 
 
Section 17 
17. If there is a possibility of unauthorized entry into a confined space, the employer, or in the 
case of a project, the constructor, shall ensure that each entrance to the confined space, 
(a) is adequately secured against unauthorized entry; or 
(b) has been provided with adequate barricades, adequate warning signs regarding 
unauthorized entry, or both.  
 
Only authorized personnel are allowed entry to the confined space, in 
accordance with the procedures identified in the plan.  
 
The employer or constructor, as the case may be, must ensure that measures 
and procedures are put in place to adequately secure each entrance to the 
confined space against unauthorized or accidental entry. These measures and 
procedures may include, but are not limited to, adequate barricades, adequate 
warning signs, or any combination thereof.  In addition, while workers are in a 
confined space, there is a requirement for an attendant who should have control 
over access. 
 
In some circumstances, use of signs is not practical, such as for every manhole 
and grate.  A tool is usually required for removal of the cover, and therefore, it 
would likely be considered secure against entry. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
53 
18. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
What are the qualifications needed for a person with adequate knowledge, 
training and experience? 
 
A person with adequate knowledge, training and experience can include a 
worker, a supervisor, a consultant, or anyone who has, in addition to the 
“academic” knowledge of the task at hand, a hands-on knowledge in safely 
performing the work, a knowledge of the associated hazards, the possible 
controls, and the legal requirements in order to enact the necessary controls to 
protect the health and safety of the workers in and about the confined space.  
 
This person or persons, (as it may be a group of people), must be able to 
perform the specific task or tasks adequately, such as being able to perform 
adequate atmospheric testing. 
 
What are the differences with this term and a “competent person”? 
 
A “competent person” is different from a person having “adequate knowledge, 
training, and experience”.  
 
There is an added responsibility of also having “to organize the work”, which 
usually is associated with a supervisor’s responsibility. The term “competent 
person” is defined in the OHSA as follows: 
“competent person” means a person who, 
(a) is qualified because of knowledge, training and experience to organize the 
work and its performance; 
(b)  is familiar with this Act and the regulations that apply to the work, and 
(c) has knowledge of any potential or actual danger to health or safety in the 
workplace.  
 
While a supervisor may have had a role in organizing the work, he or she may 
not necessarily be competent to carry out the specific task or tasks.  
 
A competent person is required for: 
 Developing and implementing the confined space plan 
 Verification that the entry permit continues to comply with the plan, 
prior to the start of each shift (and before first, initial entry).  

 
 
 
54 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
Persons with adequate knowledge, training, and experience would be the ones 
called upon to:  
 Carry out an adequate assessment of the hazards in the confined 
space before any worker enters the confined space  
 Sign and date the assessment and provide it to the employer  
 Conduct the general training of workers before they are allowed to 
enter the confined space, in the case of a workplace that is not a 
project 
 Inspect the rescue equipment to ensure it is in good working order 
 Perform adequate tests as often as necessary to ensure that 
acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space, in 
accordance with the relevant plan  
 Inspect the personal protective equipment used by a worker entering 
the confined space where there are atmospheric hazards. 
 
What are the rights of the joint health and safety committee or health and 
safety representative on a construction project? 
 
The JHSC or health and safety representative has a right to the following 
documents relating to confined space: 
 a copy of coordination document 
 a copy of the program 
 a copy of the assessment when requested 
 worker training records required under section 9.1 (Projects) when 
requested. 
 
What are the rights and responsibilities of the joint health and safety 
committee or health and safety representative in a workplace, except a 
construction project? 
 
The JHSC or health and safety representative has a right to the following 
documents relating to confined spaces:  
 a copy of coordination document 
 a copy of the program 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
55 
 a copy of assessment, when requested 
 
The JHSC or health and safety representative also has the following consultation 
rights: 
 be consulted by the employer with regard to the development and 
maintenance of the confined space program  
 be consulted in regard to the development of general worker training  
 be consulted by the employer, with regard to reviewing the confined 
space general training regularly, on an annual basis, as well as 
whenever there is a change in circumstances. 
 
What are the duties of an attendant? 
 
An attendant is a worker who is trained in the hazards of confined spaces and 
whose primary responsibility is to monitor and assist the workers in the confined 
space. 
Assistance includes maintaining communication with the workers via an 
adequate communication system, calling for emergency rescue, providing 
confined space workers with fresh air packs and other personal protective 
equipment.  
 
The attendant is not to enter the confined space, and his/her location and 
activities will be determined by the hazard assessment and the resulting confined 
space plan.  
 
Where does the attendant have to be located? 
 
The attendant has to be located outside and near the entrance of the confined 
space. As well he/she must be in constant communication with the workers 
inside the space and able to immediately summon a rescue response should it 
be required.  
 
Can the attendant perform any other work while being the attendant? 
 
Only if that work does not impede the attendant’s duties.  
 

 
 
 
56 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
What is meant by an attendant being “in constant communication with all 
workers inside the confined space”? 
 
The attendant must be able to send and receive information to and from the 
workers inside the confined space in order to perform the duties of the attendant. 
How that is achieved is not specified; therefore, communications may be verbal 
or may include hand signals, radios, etc. The method will be determined by the 
employer and set out in the plan, based on the types of hazards identified in the 
assessment and the physical aspects of the confined space. 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
57 
19. DOCUMENTS 
 
What are the requirements for written documentation and which ones can 
be incorporated into the entry permit? 
 
The following written documents are required: 
1. co-ordination document  (if applicable)* 
2. program * 
3. assessment 
4. plan 
5. training records 
6. entry permit 
7. on-site rescue procedures * 
8. on-site rescue equipment inspection records 
9. air testing results 
 
All of the above documents may be incorporated within the “entry permit” except 
for those with an asterisk.  
 
How long do the above documents have to be retained? 
 
All of the above documents must be retained for the longer of one year after they 
are created, and the period that is necessary to ensure that at least the two most 
recent records of each document are retained, with the exception of the confined 
space program which must be maintained at all times if the workplace includes a 
confined space that workers may enter to perform work.  
 
For construction projects these documents must be retained for at least one year 
after the completion of the project.  
 
What workplace parties must receive copies of these documents? 
 
For all workplaces that are not construction projects: 
 The program must be provided to the JHSC or Health and Safety 
representative. The employer must also ensure that a copy of the 

 
 
 
58 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
program is available to any other employer of workers who perform 
work to which the program relates. 
 A copy of the program must also be available to workers who perform 
work to which the program relates where there is no JHSC or Health 
and Safety representative. 
  The assessment document and record of the details of the knowledge, 
training and experience of the person(s) who carried out the 
assessment, must be provided upon request to the JHSC, or Health 
and Safety representative, or to the workers if there is no JHSC or 
Health and Safety representative. 
 The co-ordination document must be provided to each employer of 
workers working in the same confined space or related work, to the 
JHSC or Health and Safety representative for each employer of 
workers who perform work in the same confined space or related work. 
 Entry permits must be readily available to every person who enters the 
confined space or performs related work during the time for which it 
applies.  
 The plan, training records, on-site rescue procedures, rescue 
equipment inspection and air testing results documents should be 
readily available at the workplace.   
 
For workplaces that are construction projects: 
 The employer or the constructor, as the case may be, must  keep 
available for inspection at the project the assessment, plan, co-ordination 
document, record of training, entry permit, record of inspection of rescue 
equipment, and air testing records.  
 The employer must provide a copy of the program to the constructor, who 
must provide a copy to the JHSC or Health and Safety representative of 
the project. 
 A copy of the program must also be available to other employers of 
workers to which the program relates and to workers where there is no 
JHSC or Health and Safety representative.  
 The co-ordination document must be provided to each employer of 
workers working in the same confined space or related work.  Upon 
request, it must also be provided to the project’s JHSC or Health and 
Safety representative, if any. 
 The assessment document and record of the details of the knowledge, 
training and experience of the person(s) who carried out the assessment, 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
 
59 
must be provided upon request to the project’s JHSC, or Health and 
Safety representative, or to the workers if there is no JHSC or Health and 
Safety representative. 
 Training records of who provided the training, who received training, and 
the date the training must be provided to the project’s JHSC or Health and 
Safety Representative, upon request.  
 
 Entry permits must be readily available to every person who enters the 
confined space or performs related work during the time for which it 
applies. 
 

 
 
60
APPENDIX 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline
Table of Concordance: Revoked Confined Space Provisions by Regulation (OLD) to Newly Consolidated Regulation (NEW) 
 
NEW 
OLD 
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
 
Specified sections are 
amended 
Sections 221.1 to 
221.19  
Sections 119.1 to 
119.20  
Sections 294 to 313  
Sections 43 to 43.19 
are revoked 
1. Definitions : “acceptable atmospheric levels” 
Section 1(a) to 
Section 1(c) 
Section 1(d)* - new 
Section 1(a) to 
Section 1(c) 
Section 221.2(a) to 
Section 221.2(c) 
Section 119.1(a) to 
Section 119.1(c) 
Section 294(a) to 
Section 294(c) 
Section 43(a) to 
Section 43(c) 
 
2. Application  
Section 2 
Section 221.1 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Section 2 
3. Exceptions  
Section 3(1)*  
Section 3(2) 
Section 3(3) 
Section 3(1)(a)(b)(c) 
to Section 3(3) 
Non-application 
 
Section 221.3(1) – 
Firefighter 
Section 221.3(1) – 
Gas Technician 
Section 221.3(2) – 
Emergency Work 
Section 221.3(3) 
Diving Operation 
Section 119.2(1) to 
Section 119.2(3) 
Section 295(1) to 
Section 295(3) 
Section 43.1(1) to 
Section 43.1(3) 
 

 
 
Confin
NEW 
OLD 
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
ed Spaces Guideline 
61
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
4. Confined spaces with multi-employer involvement  
Section 4(1) 
Section 4(2)* 
Section 4(3)* 
Section 4(4)(a) 
Section 4(4)(b)* 
Section 4(4)(c)*- new 
 
Section 4(1) to 
Section 4(4)(a)(b) 
Coordination 
Document, Multi-
Employer 
 
Section 221.4(1) to 
Section 221.4(3) 
Section 119.3(1) 
Section 119.3(4) 
Coordination 
Document 
 
 
Section 296(1) to 
Section 296(4) 
Section 43.2(1) to 
Section 43.2(4) 
5. Program 
All changed: Section 
5(1)* to Section 5(7)* 
 
Section 5(6)*-new 
 
Section 5(1) to 
Section 5(6)  
 
Section 221.5(1) to 
Section 221.5(5) 
Section 119.4(1) to 
Section 119.4(6) 
 
Section 297(1) to 
Section 297(6) 
 
Section 43.3(1) to 
Section 43.3(6) 
6. Assessment 
Section 6(1) to 
Section 6(9)  
 
Changes to Section 
6(8)* 
 
Section 6(1) to 
Section 6(9) 
 
Hazard Assessment 
 
Section 221.6(1) to 
Section 221.6(9) 
Section 119.5(1) to 
Section 119.5(9) 
Hazard Assessment 
 
Section 298(1) to 
Section 298(9) 
Section 43.4(1) to 
Section 43.4(9) 
7. Plan  
No changes 
Section 7(1) to 
Section 7(5) 
Section 221.7(1) to 
Section 221.7(5) 
Section 119.6(1) to 
Section 119.6(5) 
Entry Plan 
 
Section 299(1) to 
Section 299(5) 
Section 43.5(1) to 
Section 43.5(5) 
 

 
 
62
NEW 
OLD 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
8. Hazard recognition and other general training  
Hazard recognition 
and other general 
training - workplaces 
other than projects  
 
Section 8(0.1)* - new  
to Section 8(7) 
Hazard recognition 
and other general 
training 
 
 
Section 8(1) to 
Section 8(7) 
Worker Training 
 
 
 
 
Section 221.8(1) to 
Section 221.8(5) 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 119.7(1) to 
Section 119.7(7) 
General Training 
 
 
 
 
Section 300(1) to 
Section 300(7) 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 43.6(1) to 
Section 43.6(7) 
9. Plan-specific training  
Plan-specific training 
– workplaces other 
than projects 
 
Section 9(0.1)*- new 
to Section 9(4) 
Plan-specific training  
 
 
 
Section 9(1) to  
Section 9(4) 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
Section 119.8(1) to 
Section 119.8(4) 
 
 
 
 
Section 301(1) to 
Section 301(4) 
 
 
 
 
Section 43.7(1) to 
Section 43.7(4) 
New Subsection: Training - projects 
New: Section 9.1(1) 
to Section 9.1(6)  
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
10. Entry permit  
No changes 
 
Section 10(1) to 
Section 10(4) 
Section 221.9(1) to 
Section 221.9(4) 
Section 119.9(1) to 
Section 119.9(4) 
Section 302(1) to 
Section 302(4) 
Section 43.8(1) to 
Section 43.8(4) 
11. On-site rescue procedures  
No changes 
Section 11(1) to 
Section 11(3) 
Section 221.10(1) to 
Section 221.10(3) 
Section 119.10(1) to 
Section 119.10(3) 
Rescue Procedures 
 
Section 303(1) to 
Section 303(3) 
Section 43.9(1) to 
Section 43.9(3) 
 

 
 
Confin
NEW 
OLD 
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
ed Spaces Guideline 
63
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
12. Rescue equipment and methods of communication 
No changes 
Section 12(1) to 
Section 12(3) 
Rescue Equipment 
 
Section 221.11(1) to 
Section 221.11(3) 
Section 119.11(1) to 
Section 119.11(3) 
Rescue Equipment 
 
Section 304(1) to 
Section 304(3) 
Section 43.10(1) to 
Section 43.10(3) 
13. Personal protective equipment, clothing and devices 
No changes 
Section 13 
Protective Clothing 
and Equipment 
 
Section 221.12 
Section 119.12 
Personal Protective 
Equipment 
 
Section 305 
Section 43.11 
14. Isolation of energy and control of materials movement 
No changes 
Section 14(a)(b)(c)(d) 
Adequate Protection 
re: Hazardous 
Substances - Section 
221.13(a) 
re: Electrical Energy - 
Section 221.13(b) 
re: Moving Parts of 
Equipment - Section 
221.13(c) 
re: Free-Flowing 
Materials - Section 
221.13(d) 
Section 
119.13(a)(b)(c)(d) 
Energy, Material 
Movement 
 
Section 
306(a)(b)(c)(d) 
Section 
43.12(a)(b)(c)(d) 
15. Attendant 
No changes 
Section 15(1) and 
Section 15(2) 
Section 221.14(1) and 
Section 221.14(2) 
Section 119.14(1) and 
Section 119.14(2) 
Section 307(1) and 
Section 307(2) 
Section 43.13(1) and 
Section 43.13(2) 
 

 
 
64
NEW 
OLD 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
16. Means for entering and exiting 
No changes 
Section 16 
N/A 
Section 119.15 
Egress 
 
Section 308 
Section 43.14 
17. Preventing unauthorized entry 
Section 17 
Unauthorized Entry 
Section 221.15 
Section 119.16 
Unauthorized Entry 
Section 309 
Section 43.15 
Section 17* 
18. Atmospheric testing 
No changes 
Section 18 (1) to 
Section 18(7) 
Section 221.16(1) to 
Section 221.16(7) 
Section 119.17(1) to 
Section 119.17(7) 
Section 310(1) to 
Section 310(7) 
Section 43.16(1) to 
Section 43.16(7) 
19. Explosive and flammable substances 
No changes 
Section 19(1) to 
Section 19(6) 
Atmospheric Hazards 
 
 
 
Section 221.17(1) to 
Section 221.17(5) 
Section 119.18(1) to 
Section 119.18(6) 
Explosive or 
Flammable 
Atmosphere 
 
Section 311(1) to 
Section 311(6) 
Section 43.17(1) to 
Section 43.17(6) 
20. Ventilation and purging 
No changes 
Section 20(1) to 
Section 20(5) 
Atmospheric Hazards 
 
Section 221.18(1) to 
Section 221.18(4) 
Section 119.19(1) to 
Section 119.19(5) 
Section 312(1) to 
Section 312(5) 
Section 43.18(1) to 
Section 43.18(5) 
 

 
 
 
Confined Spaces Guideline 
65
NEW 
OLD 
Amended Confined 
Spaces Regulation 
O. Reg. 632/05  
 
*Changed sections 
Confined Spaces 
Regulation O. Reg. 
632/05  
Construction 
Projects (O. Reg. 
213/91)  
 
Part II.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Industrial 
Establishments 
(Reg. 851)  
 
Part I.1  Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Mines and Mining 
Plants (Reg. 854)  
 
 
Part XII - Confined 
Spaces is revoked 
Health Care and 
Residential Facilities 
(O. Reg. 67/93)  
 
Confined Spaces  
21. Records 
Section 21(1)* 
Section 21(2)* - new 
Section 21(3)*  
Section 21(1) and 
Section 21(2) 
Written Documents 
 
Section 221.19(1) and 
Section 221.19(2) 
Section 119.20(1) and 
Section 119.20(2) 
Record Retention 
 
Section 313(1) and 
Section 313(2) 
Section 43.19(1) and 
Section 43.19(2) 
22. In Force Date:  July 1, 2011 
 
Other 
Regulation 
New – Confined Space 
Regulation  
Old 
Industrial Establishments: Cross-reference changed to amended  
Regulation 
Section 50* 
Section 50 
Construction Projects: Cross-reference changed to amended 
Regulation 
Section 247(1)(a) 
Section 247(1)(b)* 
Section 247(1)(c) 
Section 247(1)(a) 
Section 247(1)(b) 
Section 247(1)(c) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6841-8 (Print) 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6842-5 (HTML) 
ISBN 978-1-4435-6843-2 (PDF) 
July 2011 
 
