accidents can be avoided annually. The road to safety starts with the evaluation of the workplace to see if there is a confined space. A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 ii Classification of a Confined Space How Can You Identify a Confined Space? NIOSH defines a confined space as one that, by design, has limited openings for entry and exit, unfavorable natural ven- tilation that could contain or produce dangerous air contaminants, and is not intended for continuous employee occupancy. Confined spaces include but are not limited to storage tanks, compartments of ships, process vessels, pits, silos, vats, wells, sewers, digesters, degreasers, reaction vessels, boilers, ventilation and exhaust ducts, tunnels, underground utility vaults, and pipelines. Confined spaces can be found in many industrial settings, from steel mills to paper mills, from shipyards to farms, and from public utilities to the construction industry. The hazards associated with confined spaces can cause serious injury and death to workers. Two major factors lead to fatal injuries in confined spaces: (1) failure to recognize and control the hazards associated with confined spaces and (2) inadequate or incorrect emergency response. The emergency response is usually a spontaneous reaction to an emergency situation and can lead to multiple fatalities. Confined spaces may be classified into two categories: (1) open-topped enclosures with depths that restrict the natural movement of air (e.g., degreasers, pits, selected types of tanks and excavations), and (2) enclosures with limited openings for entry and exit (e.g., sewers, tanks and silo). Figure 1 illustrates examples of common types of confined spaces. Figure 1 Examples of Confined Spaces         A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 1 The hazards found in any confined space are determined by the material being stored or used, by the process taking place inside the space, and by the effects of the external environment. Worker entry into confined spaces may occur dur- ing construction activities or during frequent necessary functions such as inspection, repair or maintenance. For purpose of discussion, hazards in confined spaces are separated into atmospheric hazards and physical hazards. A confined space: l has limited or restricted means of entry or exit l is large enough for an employee to enter and perform assigned work l is not designed for continuous occupancy Limited Openings for Entry and Exit Confined space openings are limited primarily by size or location. Openings are usually small in size, perhaps as small as 18 inches in diameter. An access door or portal that is too small to allow an employee to walk upright and unimpeded through it is considered to be limited access or exit. These small openings may make it very difficult to get needed equipment in or out of the spaces. Confined spaces can be hazardous, and they can be hazardous in varied ways. Oftentimes the confined space will not appear to be hazardous; it may have been entered on prior occasions without incident and may give no