percent to 21.4 percent* (148–163 mm Hg) 10 percent of lower flammability limit or less Less than contamination level referenced in 29 CFR Part 1910, Subpart Z Class A Class B Class C Characteristics Oxygen Flammability Characteristics Toxicity **Based upon a total atmospheric pressure of 760 mm Hg (sea level) **Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 3 Figure 2 Oxygen Scale Any atmosphere with less than 19.5 percent oxygen should NOT be entered without a NIOSH-approved self-contained breathing apparatus or a NIOSH-approved supplied air breathing apparatus. The oxygen level in a confined space can decrease because of the type of work being done, such as welding, cutting or brazing, or it can be decreased by certain chemical reactions (rusting) or through bacterial action (fermentation). The oxygen level is also decreased if oxygen is displaced by another gas, such as carbon dioxide, argon, helium or nitrogen. Total displacement of oxygen by another gas, such as carbon dioxide, will result in unconsciousness, followed by death. Flammable Atmospheres Flammable atmospheres generally result from evaporation of flammable liquids, by-products of chemical reactions, enriched atmospheres or concentrations of combustible dusts. Two things make an atmosphere flammable: (1) the amount of oxygen in air and (2) a flammable gas, vapor or dust in the proper mixture. Different gases and combustible dusts have different flammable and explosive ranges. (See National Fire Protection Association publication 497-2012, Recommended Practice for the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or Vapors and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical Process Areas, and National Fire Protection Association publication 499-2013, Recommended Practice for the Classification of Combustible Dusts and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical Process Areas). When a source of ignition (for example, a sparking or electrical tool) is introduced into a space containing a flammable atmosphere, a fire or an explosion can result. (See Figure 3.) Difficult Breathing Death in Minutes Faulty Judgment Rapid Fatigue Impaired Judgment and Breathing 23.5% 19.5% 16% 14% 6% Minimum for Safe Entry O2 Enriched A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 4 Figure 3 The Ignition Triangle An oxygen-enriched atmosphere (above 23.5 percent) will cause flammable materials, such as clothing and hair, to burn violently when ignited and may cause some nonflammable materials to ignite. Therefore, NEVER use pure oxygen to ventilate a confined space. Ventilate with normal air. Toxic Atmospheres Because air cannot freely move in and out of confined spaces due to the design and configuration, the atmosphere inside a confined space can be very different from the atmosphere outside. Deadly gases may be trapped inside, particu- larly if the space is used to store or process chemicals or organic substances that may decompose. There may not be enough oxygen inside the confined space to support life, or the air could be so oxygen-rich that it is likely to increase the chance of fire or explosion if a source of ignition is present. Toxic atmospheres can be caused