tal training, and posting of the space. It is the employer’s obligation to ensure that alternative methods are at least as effective as a sign. In some cases, employers may have to provide training in addition to signs, to protect employees who do not speak English or who have difficulty understanding or interpreting signs. If a space has a locked entry cover, panel or access door that can only be opened with special tools, signs may be unnecessary if the employer ensures that all affected employees are informed about the space and know that it is not to be opened without taking proper precautions, including temporary signs, to restrict unexpected or unknowing entry. Entry Options The employer has the options of having no entrants, using contractor entrants, using the host employer entrants, or a combination of host and contractor entrants. No Entrant If an employer, after identifying a permit-required confined space at the worksite, decides that employees or contractor employees will not enter the space, the employer must: l take effective measures to prevent its employees from entering the permit spaces and meet other requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (6) and (8). Contractor Entrant If the employer (host) arranges for employees of another employer (contractor) to perform work that involves permit space entry, the host employer must: l Develop a permit-required confined space program covering contractor operations. l Inform the contractor that the workplace contains permit-required confined spaces. l Ensure that the contractor has reviewed the host employer’s permit-required confined space program and has its own permit-required confined space program in place prior to entry. l Apprise the contractor of any precautions or procedures that the host employer has implemented for the protection of employees in or near permit spaces. (At a minimum, this information must include the applicable material safety data sheet or hazard information on the contents, coatings or liners; potential hazardous atmo spheres; sampling data base; and residue(s) found or anticipated in the permit space. All information generated in the original evaluation of the permit space must also be provided.) l Coordinate entry operations with the contractor when the employer and contractor(s) will be working in or near the permit space. (There should be absolutely no doubt by any permit space entrant, attendant and entry supervisor regarding who the controlling employer is and whose policy and permit space practices are to be followed.) l Debrief the contractor at the conclusion of the entry operation regarding the permit space program followed and regarding any hazards confronted or created in permit space entry operations. DANGER PERMIT-REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE AUTHORIZED ENTRANTS ONLY A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 9 Host Employer’s Entrant If the host employer’s employees are to enter permit spaces, the employer must develop a written permit space pro- gram (see example programs in Appendix C to 29 CFR 1910.146), which must be made available to employees or their representatives. Within the program the employer has some flexibility in entering the space depending on the