filter dangerous substances from the air, and air-supplying, which deliver a supply of safe breathing air from a tank or an uncontaminated area nearby. (See Figure 8.) Figure 8 Two Basic Types of Respirators              !    " # $   %                        !   A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 12 Selecting the proper NIOSH-approved respirator for the job, the hazard and the person is very important, as is thor- ough training in the use and limitations of respirators. A respirator protection program is required when employees are required to use a respirator. (See 29 CFR 1910.134, Respirator Protection Program.) Only NIOSH-approved positive pres- sure, pressure-demand SCBAs or positive pressure, pressure-demand airline respirators with escape provisions can be used in oxygen-deficient or unknown atmospheres. Isolation of Energy Sources In a confined space, it may be very hard to separate the employee from the sources of hazardous energy. The close quarters in which the employee works increases the likelihood of the injury. The activation of electrical or mechanical equipment and the release of material through lines connected to the confined space are major causes of injury. A lock- out/tagout program is required. (See 29 CFR 1910.147, The Control of Hazardous Energy, and 29 CFR 1910.333(b), Working on or near Exposed Deenergized Parts). Specific procedures to lockout/tagout specific pieces of equipment are required before entering the space. It is essential to deenergize and lock out all electrical circuits and physically discon- nect mechanical equipment prior to any work in the confined space. All lines must be physically disconnected, blanked off, or isolated using a double block and bleed system. Only employees trained in lockout/tagout procedures should con- duct lockout/tagout operations. All actions must be verified to ensure the safety of items and that they are safely placed out of and returned to service. (See Figures 9 and 10.) Figure 9 Examples of Lockout Figure 10 Method of Blanking Hydraulic/Pneumatic Lines A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 13 Written Program The employer who allows employees to enter must develop and implement a written program for permit-required con- fined spaces. (See Appendix C to 29 CFR 1910.146, Examples of Permit-Required Confined Space Programs.) The OSHA standard requires the employer’s program to include, at a minimum: l measures to prevent unauthorized entry l procedures to identify and evaluate the hazards of permit spaces before employees enter l means, procedures and practices necessary for safe permit entry operations l provisions for providing properly maintained protective equipment, including necessary personal protective equip- ment, to trained employees at no cost l provisions to evaluate permit space conditions l provisions for one attendant outside the permit space l provisions for multiple space monitoring if one attendant is used l procedures for designation of persons