recommen- dations for work practices and rescue procedures can be made. A detailed listing of safe work practices and procedures for confined-space work is given in the NIOSH criteria document, NIOSH Publication 80-106. A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 2 Table 1 Confined-Space Classification How Can You Identify a Permit-Required Confined Space? A permit-required confined space is one that meets the definition of a confined space and has one or more of these characteristics: l contains or has a potential to contain a hazardous atmosphere l contains a material that has the potential for engulfing an entrant l has an internal configuration such that an entrant could be trapped or asphyxiated by inwardly converging walls or by a floor which slopes downward and tapers to a smaller cross-section l contains any other recognized serious safety or health hazard immediately dangerous to life and health that prevents self-rescue What Are the Hazards Involved in Entering and Working in Confined Spaces? Many workplaces contain spaces configured is such a way to be considered “confined.” Confinement itself may pose entrapment hazards. Working in a confined space may keep employees closer to hazards. For example, confinement, lim- ited access or restricted airflow can result in hazardous conditions that would not arise in an open workplace. Hazardous Atmospheres Many substances have short-term exposure limits, in addition to 8-hour time weighted average exposure limits. The per- mit-required confined space rule is intended to protect against short-term acute hazards. Exposures at or below the permissi- ble exposure limits do not fall under the permit-required confined space rule. Other standards (see 29 CFR 1910, Subparts G and Z) address a broader range of health and safety concerns. Any sub stance that is not capable of causing death, incapacita- tion, impairment of ability to self-rescue, injury or acute illness due to health effects is not covered by the rule. The atmosphere in a confined space may be extremely hazardous because of the lack of natural air movement. This char- acteristic of confined spaces can result in: (1) oxygen-deficient, (2) flammable or (3) toxic atmospheres. Oxygen-Deficient Atmospheres An oxygen-deficient atmosphere has less than 19.5 percent available oxygen (O2). When oxygen levels drop below 17 percent, there is increased breathing volume, accelerated heartbeat and a deterioration of night vision, which is usually not noticeable. Oxygen atmospheres with 14 to 16 percent oxygen contribute to poor muscular coordination, rapid fatigue and intermittent respiration. At 6 percent oxygen, there is a rapid loss of consciousness and death in minutes. (See Figure 2). Immediately dangerous to life 16 percent or less* (122 mm Hg) or greater than 25 percent (190 mm Hg) 20 percent or greater of lower flammability limit IDLH** Dangerous, but not immediately life threatening 16.1 percent to 19.4 percent* (122–147 mm Hg), or 21.5 per- cent to 25 percent (163-190 mm Hg) 10 percent to19 percent of lower flammability limit Greater than contamination level, referenced in 29 CFR Part 1910, Subpart Z less than IDLH** Potential hazard 19.5