conditions identified. Sometimes the employer can change a permit-required confined space to a non-permit-required confined space by use of alternate entry procedures. Alternate Entry Procedures Under certain conditions, the employer may use alternate procedures for worker entry into a permit space. For example, if employers can demonstrate with monitoring and inspection data that the only hazard is an actual or potential hazardous atmosphere, which can be made safe for entry by the use of continuous forced air ventilation alone, they may be exempted from some requirements, such as permits, attendants and rescue apparatus. Even in such circumstances, however, the inter- nal atmosphere of the space must be tested first for oxygen content, second for flammable gases and vapors, and third for potential toxic air contaminants before any employee enters. The frequency of testing depends on the nature of the permit space and the results of the initial testing. Periodic testing is critical to ensure the space is main tained within the limits of the acceptable entry conditions. All permit space atmos- pheres are dynamic due to variables such as temperature, pressure, physical characteristics of the hazardous substances, and the variable efficiency of the ventilation equipment and air delivery system. Entry under alternative means would not be accept able if atmospheric hazards in the space would quickly increase if the ventilation stopped. Sufficient time must be made available for an entrant to safely exit the space if the ventilation stops. The entrant or the entrant’s authorized representative must be provided the opportunity to observe all testing of the space during the operation. Testing the Atmosphere As previously discussed in Part 1, the atmosphere in a confined space may be hazardous due to: (1) low oxygen levels; (2) flammable or explosive concentrations of gases, vapors or dusts; or (3) toxic levels of gases and vapors. Therefore, the air in a confined space must be tested first for oxygen, then for flammable or combustible gases and vapors, and then for toxic gases and vapors. Before the monitoring process begins, the employer must understand when an employee is considered to be exposed to a hazardous substance. The results of air sampling and exposure monitoring that show the composition of an atmosphere to which an employee is actually exposed (even if the employee is using a respirator) are considered an employee expo- sure record under 29 CFR 1910.1020(c)(5). If the employer as a result of sampling does not allow entry into the confined space, the sample would not be considered as a exposure record because no employee would have been exposed to the atmosphere sampled. It is important to understand that some gases and vapors are heavier than air and will settle to the bottom of a confined space. Also, some gases are lighter than air and will be found around the top of the confined space. Therefore, it is neces- sary to test all areas (top, middle, bottom) of a confined space with testing instruments that are calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations