apparent sign of danger. At other times there may be ready indications of danger: the distinct odor of irritating or toxic atmospheres, the presence of arcing electrical equipment, continued mild shocks, or flowing grain or sand. By their nature, confined spaces concentrate hazards: atmospheric hazards, in that certain gases will displace breathable air, or that the confined space will allow the accumulation of toxic hazards or flammable or explosive atmospheres; and physical hazards, in that confined spaces limit the ability to avoid contact with electricity, moving mechanical components or machinery, or unstable sub- stances. Recognition of the inherent capacity of these spaces to harbor hazardous agents is a significant element in any workplace hazard assessment. When confined spaces are recognized to be hazardous, provisions for minimizing the need for entry and for use of appropriate work practices and equipment can be made. Access to open-topped spaces may require the use of ladders, hoists or other devices. Escape from such areas may be very difficult in emergency situations. Ladders and temporary, movable, spiral or articulated stairs are usually considered limited or restricted means of egress. Fixed industrial stairs that meet OSHA standards must be considered limited or restricted means of egress when the conditions or physical characteristics of the space, in light of the hazards present in it, would interfere with the entrant’s ability to exit or be rescued in a hazardous condition. A space has limited or restricted means of entry or exit if an entrant’s ability to escape in an emergency would be hin- dered. Not Designed for Continuous Worker Occupancy Most confined spaces are not designed for workers to enter and work in them on a routine basis. They are designed to store a product, to enclose materials and processes, or to transport products or substances. The distance an employee must travel in a space such as a tunnel to reach a point of safety can be a determinant for classifying a space as a confined space. Therefore, occasional worker entry for inspection, maintenance, repair, cleanup or similar tasks is often difficult and dangerous due to chemical, distance or physical hazards within the space. A confined space found in the workplace may have a combination of the above characteristics, which can complicate working in and around these spaces, as well as hamper rescue operations during emergencies. If a survey of your working area identifies one or more work spaces with the characteristics listed above, then please read the following informa- tion—someday it may save your life or the life of a co-worker. NIOSH developed a classification scheme for atmospheric hazards in confined spaces, which is based on the oxygen content of the air, the flammability characteristics of gases or vapors, and the concentration of toxic substances that may be present in a confined space (Table 1). Listing a particular confined space as Class A, B or C is determined by the most hazardous condition present. The usefulness of this classification is that it provides a framework upon which