representative are afforded the opportunity to observe any testing of the confined space prior to and during the operation l terminate entry and cancel permits when entry operations are completed or if a new condition exists l take appropriate measures to remove unauthorized entrants or persons who attempt to enter l ensure that entry operations remain consistent with the entry permit and that acceptable entry conditions are main- tained Rescue On-Site Rescue Over 50 percent of the workers who die in confined spaces are attempting to rescue other workers. Rescuers must be trained in and follow established emergency procedures and use appropriate equipment and techniques (including life- lines, respiratory protection and standby persons). Steps for safe rescue should be included in all confined space entry procedures. Rescue procedures should be well planned, and drills should be frequently conducted on emergency proce- dures. An unplanned rescue, such as when someone instinctively rushes in to help a downed co-worker, can easily result in a double fatality or even multiple fatalities if there is more than one would-be rescuer. Remember: An unplanned rescue could be your last. A standby person should be assigned to remain on the outside of the confined space and be in constant contact (visual or speech) with the workers inside. The standby person should not have any other duties but to serve as standby and know who should be notified in case of emergency. Standby personnel should not enter a confined space until help arrives, and then only with proper protective equipment, lifelines, and respirators (see Figure 11). A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 16 Figure 11 Entry With Hoist and Standby Personnel The employer has overall responsibility for employee safety. If an off-site rescue service is used, the employer must verify the availability of the service each time a permit space entry is scheduled or attempted. If the off-site rescue service indicates, for any reason, that it would be unable to respond to a rescue summons, entry shall not be authorized unless adequate alternative rescue service is arranged. Rescue Service Decision The standard requires the employer to ensure that rescue service personnel are provided. The employer must decide who is going to be the rescue team or emergency service. (See Appendix F to 29 CFR 1910.146, Rescue Team or Emergency Service Decision.) The employer can use an outside team or a rescue service such as the fire department. In making this rescue service decision, the employer must answer the following questions about the rescue team or service: l What hazards will the rescuers encounter? l Do they have the capability to recognize those hazards? l Are they equipped to cope with those hazards? l Do they have the capability to work near or within those hazards safely? l Do they have the ability to respond to the different hazards? l Can the rescue team reach the victim in time to effect a rescue? l Has the service maintained its proficiencies? If an outside rescue service