by the following: l The product stored in the space. The product may contain a toxic component, which could be absorbed into the walls and have the potential for release depending on the use of the space. l The type of work being performed in a confined space. Examples of such include welding, cutting, brazing, painting, scraping, sanding and degreasing. Toxic atmospheres are generated in various processes. For example, cleaning sol- vents are used in many industries for cleaning/degreasing. The vapors from these solvents can build up to toxic lev- els in a confined space. l Areas adjacent to the confined space. Toxicant produced by work near confined spaces can enter and accumulate in confined spaces. (Figure 4 illustrates work that may go on in confined spaces.)                A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 5 Figure 4 Examples of Work in Confined Spaces General/Physical Hazards In addition to the areas discussed above, evaluation of a confined space should consider the following potential haz- ards: Temperature Extremes Extremely hot or cold temperatures can present problems for workers. For example, when possible, a steam tunnel should be allowed to cool before entering. Engulfment Hazards Loose granular material stored in bins and hoppers, such as grain, sand, coal or similar material, can engulf and suffo- cate a worker. The loose material can crust over, or bridge over, in a bin and break loose under the weight of a worker. (See Figure 5.) Figure 5 The Hazard of Engulfment in Unstable Material    A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 6 Noise Noise within a confined space can be amplified because of the design and acoustic properties of the space. Excessive noise can not only damage hearing and reduce reaction time to hazards but can also affect communication. This can cause a shouted warning to go unheard. Slick/Wet Surfaces Slips and falls can occur on a wet surface, causing injury or death to workers. Spaces that have an internal configura- tion, inwardly converging walls, or a floor that slopes downward and tapers to a smaller cross-section, increase the haz- ards of slipping and falling. Different material contained in the space may react differently in a wet environment. A wet surface will also increase the likelihood for and effect of electric shock in areas where electrical circuits, equipment and tools are used. Falling Objects Workers in confined spaces should be mindful of the possibility of falling objects, particularly in spaces that have top- side openings for entry and where work is being done above the worker. A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 7 Requirements of the Standard Who Is Covered? Employers who have employees working in general industry are covered by this standard. All employers in general industry are required to evaluate the workplace to determine if any space is a permit-required confined space. An employ- er who finds such a