space must implement the requirements of Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations Part 1910.146. General In general, employers must evaluate the workplace to determine if spaces are permit-required confined spaces. (See Decision Flowchart.) The survey requirement can be met through reviewing existing records and the employer’s knowl- edge of the space, provided that the information is adequate to make the correct classification of the space. NO YES YES YES NO NO YES Inform employees as required by §1910.146(c)(2). Consult other applicable OSHA standards. Will host employees enter to perform entry tasks? STOP NO NO YES Prevent employee entry as required by §1910.146(c)(3). Do task from outside of space. Coordinate entry operations as required by §1910.146(c)(8)(iv) and (d)(11). Prevent unauthorized entry. Task will be done by contractors’ employees. Inform contractor as required by §1910.146(c)(8)(i), (ii), and (iii). Contractor obtains information required by §1910.146(c)(9)(i), (ii), and (iii) from host. Does the workplace contain PRCS as defined by §1910.146(b)? Will permit space be entered? Will contractors enter? Prevent unauthorized entry. Not a PRCS. 1910.146 does not apply. Consult other OSHA standards. Employer may choose to reclassify space to non-permit required confined space using §1910.146(c)(7). Both contractors and host employees will enter the space? STOP NO YES YES NO NO CONTINUE Can the hazards be eliminated? YES Prepare for entry via permit procedures. Entry tasks completed. Permit returned and canceled. NO YES YES 1Spaces may have to be evacuated and re-evaluated if hazards arise during entry. NO Does space have known or potential hazards? STOP 1 Space may be entered under §1910.146(c)(5). Permit not valid until conditions meet permit specifications. STOP 1 Can the space be maintained in a condition safe to enter by continuous forced air ventilation only? Permit issued by authorizing signature. Acceptable entry conditions maintained throughout entry. Audit permit program and permit based on evaluation of entry by entrants, attendants, testers, preparers, etc. Verify acceptable entry conditions. (Test results recorded, space isolated if needed, rescuers/means to summon available, entrants properly equipped, etc.) Emergency exists (prohibited condition). Entrants evacuated, entry is aborted. (Call rescuers if needed.) Permit is void. Reevaluate program to correct/prevent prohibited condition. Occurrence of emergency (usually) is proof of deficient program. No re-entry until program (and permit) is amended. (May required new program.) Permit-Required Confined Space Decision Flowchart A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 8 If there are permit spaces in the workplace, the employer must inform exposed employees of the existence, location, and danger posed by the spaces. This can be accomplished by posting danger signs or by another equally effective means. The following language, or other similar language, would satisfy the requirements for such a sign: Alternative methods, such as additional training, may be used where they are truly effective in warning all employees who could reasonably be expected to enter the space. This requirement can be met in a number of ways. A space can combine permanent closing, placing physical barriers on the space such as bolting and locking the space with supplemen-