to determine what atmospheric conditions are present (see Figure 6). (See Appendix B to 29 CFR 1910.146, Procedures for Atmospheric Testing.) NOTE: Some multi-atmosphere testers require a supply of oxygen to conduct tests. A test for the percentage of oxygen is required to be conducted first. A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 10 Figure 6 Testing the Atmosphere From the Outside, Top to Bottom If testing reveals oxygen-deficiency or the presence of toxic gases or vapors, the space must be ventilated and retested before workers enter. If ventilation is not possible and entry is necessary (for emergency rescue, for example), workers must have appropriate respiratory protection. Never trust your senses to determine if the air in a confined space is safe! You cannot see or smell many toxic gases and vapors, nor can you determine the level of oxygen present. Ventilation Ventilation by a blower or fan may be necessary to remove harmful gases and vapors from a confined space. There are several methods for ventilating a confined space. The method and equipment chosen are dependent upon the size and con- figuration of the confined space openings, the gases to be exhausted (for example, are they flammable?), and the source of makeup air. For example, under certain conditions where flammable gases or vapors have displaced the oxygen but are too rich to burn, forced air ventilation may create a dangerous condition by diluting them until they are within the explosive range. It may be necessary to use inert gases (such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, argon, etc.) to reduce flammable gases or vapors to safe levels within the confined space. However, the space should be well-ventilated and retested before a worker may enter. A common method of ventilation requires a large hose, one end attached to a fan and the other lowered into a manhole or opening. For example, a manhole would have the ventilating hose run to the bottom to blow out all harmful gases and vapors (see Figure 7). The air intake should be placed in an area that will draw in fresh air only. An air supply taken next to a vehicle or compressor exhaust system could draw in one hazardous gas while exhausting another. Ventilation should be continuous where possible, because in many confined spaces the hazardous atmosphere will accumulate again when the flow of air is stopped. Periodic testing must be conducted to ensure that the atmosphere inside the confined space is safe. Remember that any testing information concerning the space has to be made available to the entrant or the entrant’s authorized representative. Methane (lighter than air) Carbon Monoxide (same as air) Hydrogen Sulfide (heavier than air)             A Guide to Safety in Confined Spaces – C01-028 11 Figure 7 Ventilating With Fan and Trunk Hose Respirators Respirators are devices that protect workers from breathing unsafe levels of toxic particles, gases and vapors. Two basic types of respirators are air-purifying, which