reasonable to require that all of the administrative steps be taken prior to entry. In order for the exception to apply, the employer of the firefighter or gas technician must provide written procedures and other measures, confined space training, and personal protective equipment, clothing and devices to protect the workers during the emergency work. Do workplaces have to comply with the national standard issued by the Canadian Standards Association (CSA), “Z1006-10, Management of Work in Confined Spaces”? No. CSA standards are voluntary standards and have been developed by committees with multiple stakeholders. It is up to a workplace to determine whether a standard would assist with compliance with legislative or regulatory requirements. Unless otherwise required by legislation or regulation to comply with a CSA standard, a CSA standard is a best practice standard that does not legally need to be complied with. The CSA confined space standard is not incorporated by reference into the Confined Spaces Regulation. Confined Spaces Guideline 5 I am an employer and my workplace has a confined space. I contract out work to be done in the confined space. Do these provisions apply to me? Yes. You are still an employer, as defined under the OHSA, when you contract out work for services. The general duties of the employer under the OHSA would apply, regardless of the situation. Therefore you have to ensure that workers who you have hired comply with the confined spaces provisions. Refer to the multiple employer section when there are workers of more than one employer required to work in the same confined space. Constructor duties, as defined under the OHSA would apply on construction projects. I am a provincially regulated employer, who often is contracted by a federally regulated business, for federal business. Sometimes, we may also work with federal companies but for our own business. How would the Confined Spaces Regulation apply? Provincially regulated workers, who occasionally work at or on a federal undertaking, are generally still subject to the authority of the OHSA. However, jurisdiction is determined on a case-by-case basis, and employers may wish to contact the Ministry of Labour for further information pertaining to their specific situations: Ministry of Labour Health & Safety Contact Centre: 1-877-202-0008. 6 Confined Spaces Guideline 4. CONFINED SPACES “confined space” means a fully or partially enclosed space, (a) that is not both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy, and (b) in which atmospheric hazards may occur because of its construction, location or contents or because of work that is done in it. If you have a space that is fully or partially enclosed, the two conditions - (a) and (b) above - must both apply before the space can be considered a “confined space”. Do I have a confined space in my workplace? To determine whether a "space" meets the definition of a confined space consider the following 3 questions: o Is the space fully or partially enclosed? o Is the space not both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy?