work activity could result in different hazards. A confined space entry is described on the entry permit with respect to permit duration, its location and the work to be done during that entry. The entry permit may include provisions for exiting the confined space and then returning back to it. These procedures, which could include atmospheric testing and other re- assessment activities, should be identified on the entry permit. Where the same space is entered for the same type of work at a time not covered by the entry permit, the previous assessment would be useful as a reference. However, the only way to determine whether the hazards in the confined space are unchanged is to complete an assessment. Can assessments for different spaces be combined into one document? Assessments for individual confined spaces would normally be written as separate documents. However, where two or more confined spaces are similar in construction and present the same hazards, the assessment for each specific confined space may be recorded in a single document. The specific confined space or spaces to which each assessment applies must be clearly identified in the assessment. Can I categorize spaces before an assessment is made? Each confined space would still require an assessment to confirm its category. Some workplaces have several types of confined spaces and have categorized them to use specific/generic controls in the plan. Each category may have measures and procedures to be followed to adequately protect workers for a confined space entry. When is a hazard assessment supposed to be completed? A hazard assessment needs to be completed, signed and dated before a worker enters a confined space. Confined Spaces Guideline 21 Would I comply if I hire a consultant with the adequate knowledge, training and experience to conduct the assessment? Yes. An employer may set out in the program that the method for assessing the hazards to which workers may be exposed will be conducted by a consultant with the adequate knowledge, training and experience. The employer would be responsible for familiarizing the consultant with the process and the work to be performed. In those instances where the employer had put a program in place and where that same employer would have called for a consultant to conduct the assessment, it is the responsibility of the employer to give to that consultant a copy of the confined space program. What should be considered in the assessment of potential atmospheric hazards? Identification of the potential atmospheric hazards should be done taking into consideration the previous contents of the space, the activities or work tasks within the space that could generate or stir up air contaminants and the potential for the sudden release of air contaminants from sources in proximity to the space. 22 Confined Spaces Guideline 7. THE PLAN Section 7 7 (1) Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate written plan, including procedures for the control of hazards identified in the assessment, has been developed and