have exposed moving parts or that may create a pinch point, require de-energizing or blocking to prevent movement. For example, a properly guarded pump or fan would generally not need to be de- energized. However, in a confined space in which flammable, combustible or 36 Confined Spaces Guideline explosive agents might accumulate, the same equipment would be de-energized or designed so that it does not create a spark. What other means could be used to protect workers from contact with electrical energy? Measures could include the installation of temporary barriers or shields or, if not practicable, the provision of adequate personal protective equipment. Note: CSA Standard Z460 Control of Hazardous Energy – Lockout & Other Methods may be considered when developing best practices to comply with this section. Confined Spaces Guideline 37 12. ATMOSPHERIC TESTING Section 18 18 (1) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to perform adequate tests as often as necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space to ensure that acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space in accordance with the relevant plan. (2) If the confined space has been both unoccupied and unattended, tests shall be performed before a worker enters or re-enters. (3) The person performing the tests shall use calibrated instruments that are in good working order and are appropriate for the hazards identified in the relevant assessment. (4) The employer shall ensure that the results of every sample of a test are recorded, subject to subsection (5). (5) If the tests are performed using continuous monitoring, the employer shall ensure that test results are recorded at adequate intervals. (6) The tests shall be performed in a manner that does not endanger the health or safety of the person performing them. (7) In this section, “sample” means an individual reading of the composition of the atmosphere in the confined space; “test” means a collection of samples. (Refer to the flow charts on Atmospheric Hazards at the end of this Section) When is it necessary to conduct atmospheric testing? The plan must contain provisions for atmospheric testing. The testing must be done as often as necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space. The atmospheric hazards of concern include oxygen content outside the acceptable range of 19.5 to 23%, the potential accumulation of flammable, combustible, or explosive agents, or accumulation of atmospheric contaminants. Who is responsible for performing atmospheric testing and for what reasons? The employer must appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to perform adequate tests. The testing is required as often as necessary before and while a worker is in a confined space to ensure that acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space in accordance with the relevant plan. 38 Confined Spaces Guideline What are some of the requirements of atmospheric testing? Representative sampling should take into consideration the presence of stratified atmospheres and pockets of contaminated air within the confined space. The selection