to have a permit for each entry? The permit requirements and duration for which the permit is valid are based on the hazard assessment conducted and the plan developed. The permit may be linked to each entry-task whose duration and criteria are specified in the plan and on the permit. On a multiple worker entry where there is more than one employer, can there be only one entry permit/attendant if identified that way in the coordination document? Yes, on a multiple worker entry where there is more than one employer, there can be one entry permit/attendant if identified that way in the coordination document. Does an entry permit need to be signed? Although there is no requirement for a signature, the permit must be verified by a competent person before each shift. As a good due diligence practice, it would be reasonable to have this verification documented by signature, and the entry permit would be a logical place to document this. Does an entry permit have to be posted at the entrance of the confined space? No. However, the permit must be readily available to every person involved in the confined space activity and this would include knowledge of the permit’s location. What is a record of entry and exit? The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that there is information about those who enter the space and leave the space. It is not meant to require a sign-in and Confined Spaces Guideline 33 out for every minor exit required to work in the space, such as leaving momentarily to obtain a nearby tool. The method of recording shall be as set out in the employer’s program. May I have one entry permit to cover workers entering two or more confined spaces, which are similar in construction and present the same hazards? Each confined space must have its own, separate entry permit. For municipalities dealing with manhole entries, the employer must assess if each manhole entry is a separate confined space or if in fact each manhole is simply a separate entrance to the same confined space. This will depend on the hazard assessment and relevant plan. 34 Confined Spaces Guideline 11. ISOLATION OF ENERGY AND CONTROL OF MATERIALS MOVEMENT Section 14 14. The employer shall, in accordance with the relevant plan, ensure that each worker entering a confined space is adequately protected, (a) against the release of hazardous substances into the confined space, (i) by blanking or disconnecting piping, or (ii) if compliance with subclause (i) is not practical in the circumstances for technical reasons, by other adequate means; (b) against contact with electrical energy inside the confined space that could endanger the worker, (i) by disconnecting, de-energizing, locking out and tagging the source of electrical energy, or (ii) if compliance with subclause (i) is not practical in the circumstances for technical reasons, by other adequate means; (c) against contact with moving parts of equipment inside the confined space that could endanger the worker, (i) by disconnecting the