workers at your workplace. All employers who have a confined space into which workers may enter to perform work are required to develop and maintain a confined space program. Where there are multiple employers of workers in a space, then the multi- employer provisions would apply. When a confined space is part of a construction project, which employer is responsible for developing and maintaining the program? Each employer of workers entering the confined space or each employer who contracts out entry to a confined space is responsible for ensuring compliance with the confined space requirements. A copy of the program or programs for the confined space must be developed by the employer(s) and provided to the constructor. Where there are multiple employers of workers who will enter a confined space see Section 8 of this Guideline. May I have one program for all confined spaces in my workplace? Yes, the program is intended for all confined spaces in the workplace and as such it is important to adequately address all confined spaces in that workplace. For employers with multiple locations, the Regulation does not prohibit the development of one program as long as it adequately addresses the confined spaces in each location. For all workplaces other than projects, the employer must consult with the joint health and safety committee (JHSC) or health and safety representative, if any, on the development and maintenance of the program for each specific workplace to which it applies. 18 Confined Spaces Guideline 6. HAZARD ASSESSMENT Section 6 6 (1) Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate assessment of the hazards related to the confined space has been carried out. (2) The assessment shall be recorded in writing and shall consider, with respect to each confined space, (a) the hazards that may exist due to the design, construction, location, use or contents of the confined space; and (b) the hazards that may develop while work is done inside the confined space. (3) The record of the assessment may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. (4) If two or more confined spaces are of similar construction and present the same hazards, their assessments may be recorded in a single document, but each confined space shall be clearly identified in the assessment. (5) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to carry out the assessment and shall maintain a record containing details of the person’s knowledge, training and experience. (6) The assessment shall contain the name of the person who carries out the assessment. (7) The person shall sign and date the assessment and provide it to the employer. (8) On request, the employer shall provide copies of the assessment and of the record mentioned in subsection (5) to, (a) the joint health and safety committee or the project’s health and safety committee, as the case may be, or the health and safety representative, if any; or (b) every worker who performs work