o Might an atmospheric hazard occur? The only way to determine if a “space” meets the definition for a “confined space” is to evaluate it. How the evaluation is done is up to the employer. If you have a fully or partially enclosed space: Is it designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy? Might an atmospheric hazard occur? Is it a confined space? Yes Yes No Yes No No No Yes Yes No No No Confined Spaces Guideline 7 We have determined a specific space not to be a confined space as per the Confined Spaces Regulation, but still prefer to conduct some air sampling prior to entering just to ensure that nothing unforeseen has occurred. Does this mean that we have to implement a confined space program for this space? No, assuming this space was properly evaluated ahead of time and deemed not to be a confined space as per the definition. However, there is nothing preventing employers from taking any additional precautionary measures for any other spaces outside of this regulation, including air sampling as an example. Even though confined space provisions do not apply, employers would still need to comply with other relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable. Is there a difference between a “restricted space” and a “confined space”? Yes. Only the Regulation for Health Care and Residential Facilities (O. Reg. 67/93) speaks of a “restricted space” in section 42. In this regulation a restricted space refers, in part, to a “space from which the egress of a worker is restricted, limited, or impeded”. A “restricted space” may also be a confined space, thus, an evaluation of the space may determine that the area is either a confined space, a restricted space, or both. Does the Confined Spaces Regulation apply to spaces that cannot be entered due to their size? The Confined Spaces Regulation is intended to protect a worker who performs work within a fully or partially enclosed space that is not both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy and in which atmospheric hazards may occur. A confined space is a space that can be occupied by a person. It is the Ministry’s position that the opening of the confined space would, therefore, need to be of such a size that a person’s body could pass through it into the space. An entry is an action that is considered to have occurred as soon as any part of the entrant’s body breaks the plane of an opening into such a space, regardless of whether the intended work activities may or may not require whole body entry, such as atmospheric testing. Under such a condition, the Confined Spaces Regulation would apply. If there is a space that has an opening of a size that a person’s body could not pass through it, the Confined Spaces Regulation would not apply even if a body part of a person (e.g. hands) would break the plane of such an opening to 8 Confined Spaces Guideline perform work activities. However,