circumstances for technical reasons, (a) compliance with subsection (3) is not required; and (b) a worker entering the confined space shall use, (i) adequate respiratory protective equipment, (ii) adequate equipment to allow persons outside the confined space to locate and rescue the worker if necessary, and (iii) such other equipment as is necessary to ensure the worker’s safety. (5) The equipment mentioned in subclauses (4) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) shall be inspected by a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience, appointed by the employer, and shall be in good working order before the worker enters the confined space. What is the difference between “purging” and “ventilating”? “Purging” involves removing contaminants inside the confined space by displacement with air to achieve acceptable atmospheric levels. For example, if a confined space originally contained a toxic gas, air would be blown into the space to reduce the concentration of the toxic gas to below the appropriate atmospheric exposure level. After the contaminants have been removed (“purged”), the confined space may be ventilated. “Ventilation” means the continuous provision of fresh air into the confined space by mechanical means to maintain acceptable atmospheric levels. It must be continued while work is being carried out within the space, to maintain an acceptable oxygen concentration, to provide protection in case of accidental release of chemicals, to remove contaminants generated by the work performed, or to cool the enclosure. Confined Spaces Guideline 43 Ventilation involves displacing air and diluting it through the introduction of fresh air (forced-air) or the continuous removal of contaminants by local exhaust ventilation for point sources. To ensure adequate ventilation, the points of air supply and exhaust should be separated as far as possible. Openings must be provided for the entry of clean replacement air or to allow the exhaust of air. Pure oxygen must not be used to ventilate a confined space. What is “inerting”? “Inerting” is a special form of purging and ventilating. Inerting involves purging oxygen from a confined space using an inert gas (such as nitrogen, carbon dioxide or argon) to remove the hazard of fire or explosion. The concentration of oxygen is decreased to below the level that can support combustion. Following the purging operation the oxygen concentration is continuously monitored and the confined space may be ventilated using the inert gas to ensure that the concentration of oxygen does not increase. The inert gases will create an unsafe atmosphere (oxygen deficiency) and therefore workers entering the confined space should use appropriate supplied air-respirators. What is an “adequate warning system” to signal failure of mechanical ventilation? The warning system must be adequate, which is defined in the Confined Spaces Regulation as “sufficient for both its intended and its actual use, and sufficient to protect a worker from occupational illness or occupational injury”. The warning system may signal ventilation failure through audible or visual means, where a warning system is required by the Regulation. The type used must be outlined in the plan and it could be as