does not affect their enforcement discretion in any way. Confined Spaces Guideline 3 3. APPLICATION Who is covered by the new and amended confined spaces provisions? The confined space requirements provide for the protection of most workers in Ontario covered by the OHSA. Confined space provisions previously found in the sector regulations under the OHSA (Regulation for Industrial Establishments, Regulation for Construction Projects, Regulation for Health Care and Residential Facilities, and Regulation for Mines and Mining Plants) have been consolidated into one regulation, O. Reg. 632/05 (Confined Spaces Regulation or Regulation). In addition, the Confined Spaces Regulation continues to apply to most other workplaces that are covered by the OHSA but not by one of the specific sector regulations. The MOL generally refers to these types of workplaces as “extended workplaces”, meaning that although the OHSA applies to them, there is no specific sector regulation that applies. Some examples of workers in extended workplaces are provincially regulated truck drivers when on the road, sewer service workers and teachers in educational facilities. Several of the confined space provisions in the Regulation that apply on construction projects vary slightly from those that apply to other workplaces. This guideline will highlight these variations, where they exist. The OHSA and its regulations can be found at www.e-laws.gov.on.ca and at the Ministry of Labour web site at www.labour.gov.on.ca Who is not covered by these provisions? Workers in federally regulated workplaces, such as federal public servants, railway workers and airline workers are covered by federal labour legislation. The Confined Spaces Regulation also does not apply to divers during a diving operation as defined in O. Reg. 629/94 (Diving Operations). Although the OHSA, with certain limitations and three regulations made under it apply to farming operations, the Confined Spaces Regulation does not. However, the MOL has worked with farming stakeholders to develop health and safety guidelines to help employers, supervisors and workers on farms to recognize hazards. The “Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines for Farming Operations in Ontario” address hazardous atmospheres and confined spaces. 4 Confined Spaces Guideline Notably, separate activities on a farm that are not part of the farming operation (e.g., construction of a building) would be subject to the Confined Spaces Regulation if there is a confined space that workers may enter to perform work. Why are there exceptions for some emergency work? Only a firefighter as defined in the Fire Protection and Prevention Act, 1997 and a person who holds a certificate under the Technical Standards and Safety Act, 2000 working under the direction of a fire department are exempt from parts of the Regulation while performing emergency work. Hazard recognition and other general training requirements continue to apply. “Emergency work”, as defined in the Regulation, means “work performed in connection with an unforeseen event that involves an imminent danger to the life, health or safety of any person.” There may be situations in which these workers must enter a confined space in order to perform emergency work, and it would not be