confined space”? The attendant must be able to send and receive information to and from the workers inside the confined space in order to perform the duties of the attendant. How that is achieved is not specified; therefore, communications may be verbal or may include hand signals, radios, etc. The method will be determined by the employer and set out in the plan, based on the types of hazards identified in the assessment and the physical aspects of the confined space. Confined Spaces Guideline 57 19. DOCUMENTS What are the requirements for written documentation and which ones can be incorporated into the entry permit? The following written documents are required: 1. co-ordination document (if applicable)* 2. program * 3. assessment 4. plan 5. training records 6. entry permit 7. on-site rescue procedures * 8. on-site rescue equipment inspection records 9. air testing results All of the above documents may be incorporated within the “entry permit” except for those with an asterisk. How long do the above documents have to be retained? All of the above documents must be retained for the longer of one year after they are created, and the period that is necessary to ensure that at least the two most recent records of each document are retained, with the exception of the confined space program which must be maintained at all times if the workplace includes a confined space that workers may enter to perform work. For construction projects these documents must be retained for at least one year after the completion of the project. What workplace parties must receive copies of these documents? For all workplaces that are not construction projects:  The program must be provided to the JHSC or Health and Safety representative. The employer must also ensure that a copy of the 58 Confined Spaces Guideline program is available to any other employer of workers who perform work to which the program relates.  A copy of the program must also be available to workers who perform work to which the program relates where there is no JHSC or Health and Safety representative.  The assessment document and record of the details of the knowledge, training and experience of the person(s) who carried out the assessment, must be provided upon request to the JHSC, or Health and Safety representative, or to the workers if there is no JHSC or Health and Safety representative.  The co-ordination document must be provided to each employer of workers working in the same confined space or related work, to the JHSC or Health and Safety representative for each employer of workers who perform work in the same confined space or related work.  Entry permits must be readily available to every person who enters the confined space or performs related work during the time for which it applies.  The plan, training records, on-site rescue procedures, rescue equipment inspection and air testing results documents should be readily available at the workplace. For workplaces that are construction projects: