different situations. 24 Confined Spaces Guideline 8. COORDINATION DOCUMENT Section 4 4(1) This section applies if the workers of more than one employer perform work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space. (2) Before any worker enters the confined space or begins related work with respect to the confined space, the lead employer or, in the case of a project, the constructor shall prepare a co-ordination document to ensure that the duties imposed on employers by sections 5 to 7, 9 to 12 and 14 to 20 are performed in a way that protects the health and safety of all workers who perform work in the confined space or related work with respect to the confined space. (3) Without restricting the generality of subsection (2), in the case of a workplace that is not a project, the co-ordination document may provide for the performance of a duty or duties referred to in that subsection by one or more employers on behalf of one or more other employers with respect to some or all of the workers. (4) A copy of the co-ordination document shall be provided to, (a) each employer of workers who perform work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space; (b) in the case of a workplace that is not a project, the joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative, if any, for each employer of workers who perform work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space; and (c) in the case of a workplace that is a project, the joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative, if any, for the project. The multi-employer section of the confined spaces provisions does not diminish employer duties under the OHSA. It is intended to ensure that employers of workers working in a confined space are aware of potential or existing hazards that may be introduced by one or the other employer, and that there is communication between the employers in order to ensure worker safety. This section is also intended to reduce duplication with respect to requirements such as assessment, plan, and entry permits. However, this sharing of tasks does not diminish an employer’s duty to ensure compliance with the Confined Spaces Regulation. The coordination document does not allow for the sharing of responsibilities for general training, personal protective equipment and records. Is a coordination document required where my workers will not enter a space, and only the workers of one contractor will be performing work in the confined space? Confined Spaces Guideline 25 No, the coordination document is only required where workers of more than one employer perform work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space. Workers may be working in the space at the same time, or consecutively. “Related work” is defined by the Regulation, as “work that is performed