situation, to take into account the dimensions of the entry/exit points to the confined space, that they should be compatible with the dimensions of the rescue equipment and rescue procedures. What does “immediate implementation” of on-site rescue procedures mean? The employer is responsible for developing a plan and ensuring that an adequate number of persons trained in certain rescue matters are available for immediate implementation of the on-site rescue procedures, before a worker enters a confined space. The plan, including the on-site rescue procedures, is based on the nature of the hazards identified during the assessment of that confined space and must adequately protect the health and safety of all workers who work in confined spaces or perform related work. The plan will indicate whether the “on- site rescue team” should be assembled at the point of entry of the confined space or whether team members may be located elsewhere on the premise or project. In either case the team must be immediately available, meaning that it is ready and available to respond to an emergency situation at a confined space. Confined Spaces Guideline 49 The on-site rescue procedures required for a space is independent of whether multiple entries will occur. Thus, changes to what was originally considered as adequate on-site rescue procedures for a space, in order to fulfill multiple simultaneous entries, may no longer be adequate. For example, if one team was in the process of implementing on-site rescue procedures for one space, they are no longer available for immediate implementation of on-site rescue procedures at another confined space. In these cases, a rescue plan should also include mechanisms for notifying the attendant that evacuation of that space will be undertaken until on-site rescue procedures can be implemented immediately again, i.e., when the rescue team is immediately available to respond. Where do rescue personnel have to be located? Rescue personnel must be available and ready to immediately implement the written on-site rescue procedures should a rescue be required as per the plan. May we use 911 emergency services as our “on-site rescue”? No, calling 911 as your rescue plan is not considered to be an “on-site rescue procedure” which can be “ready for immediate implementation” for the purpose of rescuing a worker from a confined space. Emergency services do not replace the requirement for on-site rescue procedures. Employers remain solely responsible for ensuring that there are adequate on-site rescue procedures that are ready for immediate implementation in order to effectively remove a worker who has been overcome in a confined space. May the rescue team enter the confined space to effect a rescue rather than retrieve the injured worker from outside of the confined space? Yes. The confined space entry plan must be provided with on-site rescue procedures as determined by the hazards for that confined space. In some cases, these may have to be performed from outside the space; however, in some other scenarios the rescue personnel may need to enter the space. If entry is required