have to be certified to provide confined space training? No. There is no certification process for trainers, workers, training programs or agencies at this time. It is up to the employer, in consultation with the JHSC or health and safety representative, if any, to determine the level and type of training provided, and to ensure it is adequate for the type of entry being conducted. Confined Spaces Guideline 31 10. ENTRY PERMIT Section 10 10. (1) The employer shall ensure that a separate entry permit is issued each time work is to be performed in a confined space, before any worker enters the confined space. (2) An entry permit shall be adequate and shall include at least the following: 1. The location of the confined space. 2. A description of the work to be performed there. 3. A description of the hazards and the corresponding control measures. 4. The time period for which the entry permit applies. 5. The name of the attendant described in section 15. 6. A record of each worker’s entries and exits. 7. A list of the equipment required for entry and rescue, and verification that the equipment is in good working order. 8. Results obtained in atmospheric testing under section 18. 9. If the work to be performed in the confined space includes hot work, adequate provisions for the hot work and corresponding control measures. (3) Before each shift, a competent person shall verify that the entry permit complies with the relevant plan. (4) The employer shall ensure that the entry permit, during the time period for which it applies, is readily available to every person who enters the confined space and to every person who performs related work with respect to the confined space. The purpose of the entry permit is to communicate to workers the hazards that have been identified and the controls that are in place, before any worker enters the confined space or performs related work with respect to the confined space. Certain safeguards that normally protect the worker may have to be removed or altered when repair or maintenance work is performed. When this occurs, the hazards involved need to be identified and a safe work system developed to eliminate or control these hazards. A permit is a document that, among other things, identifies the work to be done, the hazard(s) involved, and the precautions taken. Entry is the action by which a person passes through an opening into a confined space. It is considered to have occurred as soon as any part of the entrant’s body breaks the plane of an opening into the confined space, and includes ensuing work activities in that space. 32 Confined Spaces Guideline When do I need an entry permit? A separate entry permit is to be issued each time work is to be performed in a confined space and before any worker enters the confined space. What if there are multiple entries for a limited duration, for the one job? Do we have