in these circumstances, the employer must still comply with other requirements under the OHSA, including taking every precaution reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health and safety of the worker. For example, there may be hazards associated with the space, such as explosive gases, and employers would need to comply with relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable, and take every precaution reasonable in the circumstances to protect workers working on or near these spaces. HUMAN OCCUPANCY To determine if a space is designed and constructed for human occupancy, one must look at the intent and construction of the space – what is the purpose of the space, or in other words, what was it intended for, and to what standards has it been designed and constructed to allow people to occupy it? Although the regulation does not define human occupancy, the MOL uses the term ‘continuous human occupancy’ to refer to a space that has been designed and constructed in accordance with recognized codes and standards that contain provisions to make the space suitable for humans to occupy, such as provisions for structural adequacy, entry and exit, ventilation and lighting such that a human could continually occupy that space. Examples are the Ontario Building Code, the Ontario Fire Code, and CSA B52 (Mechanical Refrigeration Code). Workspaces such as offices, arenas, maintenance rooms, control rooms, etc., are obvious places that are designed for humans to occupy for long periods of time (continuously). These spaces are not considered a confined space, regardless of the atmospheric hazards that may occur in them. However, occupational health and safety legislation and regulations apply and must be complied with to protect workers. Other spaces, such as parts of a tunnelling operation or an underground mine (stopes, drifts, ramps, shafts, raises), are designed and constructed specifically for people to carry out work within them. Specific codes and standards and requirements are intended to make the space adequate for the health and safety of workers. However, parts of a tunnel or mine could be confined spaces. Tunnels and mines could also include confined spaces within them, such as bins, tanks, clean or dirty water sumps, and water storage dams. Some examples of spaces that would not be considered as “both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy” are: Confined Spaces Guideline 9  storage tanks, tank cars, process vessels, boilers, pressure vessels, vats, bins, silos, bag-houses and other tank like compartments usually having only a manhole for entry  open topped spaces such as pump wells, augured caissons, pits or degreasers  pipes, sewers, ducts and similar structures  cargo tanks, cellular double bottom tanks, duct keels, ballast and oil tanks and void spaces  chutes, mill holes, ore bins, inside of a skip hanging in a shaft, crusher jaws  flues, chimneys, ovens or furnaces. Structures such as vessels, sewers and tank cars are designed and constructed to play a role in part of a process. Their primary purpose is to contain, transport, move or