and maintained in consultation with the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any. (4) A program described in subsection (1) shall be adequate and shall provide for, (a) a method for recognizing each confined space to which the program applies; (b) a method for assessing the hazards to which workers may be exposed, in accordance with section 6; (c) a method for the development of one or more plans, in accordance with section 7; (d) a method for training of workers, in accordance with section 8 or section 9.1, as the case may be; and (e) an entry permit system that sets out the measures and procedures to be followed when work is to be performed in a confined space to which the program applies. (5) In the case of a workplace that is not a project, the employer shall provide a copy of the program to the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any. (6) In the case of a workplace that is a project, the employer shall provide a copy of the program to the constructor, who shall provide a copy of it to the project's joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative, if any. (7) The employer or constructor, as the case may be, shall ensure that a copy of the program is available to, (a) any other employer of workers who perform work to which the program relates; and (b) every worker who performs work to which the program relates, if the workplace has no joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative. What does a confined space program include? A confined space program is a written document that includes: a method for recognizing each confined space to which the program applies; a method for assessing the hazards to which workers may be exposed; a method for the development of confined space entry plans; a method for training workers; and, an entry permit system. A method is a process which the employer will use to implement the various elements of the program. Confined Spaces Guideline 17 Does ‘workplace’ include a construction project? Yes, a project is also a workplace. The OHSA defines a workplace as any land, premises, location or thing at, upon, in or near which a worker works [Section 1 of the OHSA]. A workplace could be a building, mine, construction site, vehicle, open field, road or forest. The general test is: is the worker being directed and paid to be there or to be near there? If the answer is “yes”, then it is a workplace. May I have an outside contractor develop a confined space program in order for workers to enter my confined space? Yes, you may have an outside contractor develop a confined space program for your workplace; however, as an employer or a contractor, you retain your responsibilities under the OHSA, and are ultimately accountable for the health and safety of all