to perform a rescue, rescue personnel must be properly protected and trained against all hazards within the confined space. 50 Confined Spaces Guideline May the attendant become part of the rescue team once a rescue has been activated? No, not unless the attendant has been replaced by another person knowledgeable in attendant duties. During a rescue, an attendant must remain in place stationed outside and near the entrance to the confined space. The attendant may assist the rescue as long as the work does not impede the attendant’s duties. What training do on-site rescue workers require? In addition to general confined space training, etc., the employer must ensure that an adequate number of on-site rescue workers have the following training:  First aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation;  On-site rescue procedures in accordance with the relevant plan; and  Use of the rescue equipment required by the relevant plan. Not all members of the team might need to have all three elements of training so long as the team as a whole has the adequate training. The amount of training required by each individual member of the team will depend on the particular situation and plan. What level of first aid training and rescue procedure training is required? The regulation does not define the level of training required. However employers are required to determine the level of training required based on the assessment and the relevant plan and the written on-site rescue procedures. Confined Spaces Guideline 51 16. MEANS OF ENTERING AND EXITING Section 16 16. An adequate means for entering and exiting shall be provided for all workers who enter a confined space, in accordance with the relevant plan. What are examples of means of entry or exit? Also known as ‘access and egress’, the purpose of this section is to ensure that employers provide for safe exit and entry as per the plan. For example, well secured ladders or other suitable means should be provided where necessary to give ready entry and exit. In addition, the size of entry and exit areas should be considered when choosing personal protective equipment (PPE) to be used by the workers entering and exiting the confined space openings. The same considerations should be made when setting up rescue procedures and choosing rescue workers’ personal protective equipment PPE and rescue equipment. For example, it is recommended that a manhole should be at least 24 inches in diameter as the minimum safe diameter for entry; hinged covers, doors, etc., should be provided with a means whereby they can be locked in the open position. For any situation where an opening for entry is less than 24 inches in diameter, the employer should consider current applicable standards, if any, and outline in the plan the appropriate PPE and rescue equipment that would be necessary for adequate entry and exit for the specific space. 52 Confined Spaces Guideline 17. PREVENTING UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY Section 17 17. If there is a possibility of unauthorized entry into a confined space,