simple as constant visual observation of flow by the attendant. If electronic or electrical warning systems for ventilation failure are used, they should be activated by the loss of airflow and be located in the air stream. This is so that the alarm would be activated both when there is ventilation failure due to motor failure, and when there is ventilation failure without motor failure (for example, if the fan belt fails or if the airflow is somehow blocked). What is an example of “an adequate warning system” to indicate ventilation failure? A warning system could be an audible or visual alarm, or both, that indicates that the ventilation has failed. The alarm should be activated by a flow or pressure switch in the air stream rather than by electrical failure or other motive power 44 Confined Spaces Guideline failure. A pressure or flow switch would ensure that if the fan belt fails, for example or the airflow is somehow blocked, the alarm is activated. ACCEPTABLE ATMOSPHERIC LEVELS Section 1: Definitions 1. In this Regulation, “acceptable atmospheric levels” means that, (a) the atmospheric concentration of any explosive or flammable gas or vapour is less than, (i) 25 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 1 of subsection 19(4) applies, (ii) 10 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 2 of subsection 19(4) applies, (iii) 5 per cent of its lower explosive limit, if paragraph 3 of subsection 19(4) applies, (b) the oxygen content of the atmosphere is at least 19.5 per cent but not more than 23 per cent by volume, and (c) in the case of a workplace that is not a project, the exposure to atmospheric contaminants does not exceed any applicable level set out in Regulation 833 of the Revised Regulations of Ontario, 1990 (Control of Exposure to Biological or Chemical Agents) made under the Act or Ontario Regulation 490/09 (Designated Substances) made under the Act, and (d) in the case of a workplace that is a project, if atmospheric contaminants, including gases, vapours, fumes, dusts or mists, are present, their concentrations do not exceed what is reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health and safety of workers; Why is the definition of “acceptable atmospheric levels” for construction projects worded differently from the other workplaces? Different requirements may apply on a construction project due to the nature of the work. Construction projects are exempt from the Regulation for Control of Exposure to Biological or Chemical Agents (Reg. 833) and the Designated Substances Regulation (O. Reg.490/09). Clause (d) of the definition of “acceptable atmospheric levels” in the Confined Spaces Regulation applies to construction projects and exposures to atmospheric contaminants must not exceed what is reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of the health and safety of workers. How are acceptable atmospheric levels related to atmospheric hazards? Atmospheric hazards are considered to determine if a space is a confined space. Acceptable atmospheric levels are those levels that must be maintained when