of the hazards in the confined space before any worker enters the confined space  Sign and date the assessment and provide it to the employer  Conduct the general training of workers before they are allowed to enter the confined space, in the case of a workplace that is not a project  Inspect the rescue equipment to ensure it is in good working order  Perform adequate tests as often as necessary to ensure that acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space, in accordance with the relevant plan  Inspect the personal protective equipment used by a worker entering the confined space where there are atmospheric hazards. What are the rights of the joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative on a construction project? The JHSC or health and safety representative has a right to the following documents relating to confined space:  a copy of coordination document  a copy of the program  a copy of the assessment when requested  worker training records required under section 9.1 (Projects) when requested. What are the rights and responsibilities of the joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative in a workplace, except a construction project? The JHSC or health and safety representative has a right to the following documents relating to confined spaces:  a copy of coordination document  a copy of the program Confined Spaces Guideline 55  a copy of assessment, when requested The JHSC or health and safety representative also has the following consultation rights:  be consulted by the employer with regard to the development and maintenance of the confined space program  be consulted in regard to the development of general worker training  be consulted by the employer, with regard to reviewing the confined space general training regularly, on an annual basis, as well as whenever there is a change in circumstances. What are the duties of an attendant? An attendant is a worker who is trained in the hazards of confined spaces and whose primary responsibility is to monitor and assist the workers in the confined space. Assistance includes maintaining communication with the workers via an adequate communication system, calling for emergency rescue, providing confined space workers with fresh air packs and other personal protective equipment. The attendant is not to enter the confined space, and his/her location and activities will be determined by the hazard assessment and the resulting confined space plan. Where does the attendant have to be located? The attendant has to be located outside and near the entrance of the confined space. As well he/she must be in constant communication with the workers inside the space and able to immediately summon a rescue response should it be required. Can the attendant perform any other work while being the attendant? Only if that work does not impede the attendant’s duties. 56 Confined Spaces Guideline What is meant by an attendant being “in constant communication with all workers inside the