construction, location or contents or because of work that is done in it. Consideration of IDLH levels may be a factor in determining the criteria for atmospheric hazards. What does ‘escape unaided’ mean? It means being able to escape without the assistance of respiratory protection, emergency equipment or other devices, or other persons. If measures and/or controls are taken to control hazards in a space prior to workers entering it, do we still need to consider it a confined space? Control measures, such as continuous mechanical ventilation to ensure that the concentrations of an atmospheric hazard are controlled or maintained at an appropriate level, would not eliminate the possibility of a potential atmospheric hazard, and therefore the space would be considered a confined space. If measures are implemented to eliminate the possibility that any atmospheric hazards may occur in a space, then the confined space provisions would no longer need to apply. Elimination of an atmospheric hazard occurring is different from the control of the hazard. If workers must enter the confined space to eliminate the hazards (steam cleaning, for example), then the regulations would apply during the cleaning process. Every confined space can be unique and must be thoroughly evaluated to determine whether or not it is possible to eliminate the potential for an atmospheric hazard to occur. Note that even if a space might not be a confined space under the Confined Space Regulation, the employer must take every precaution reasonable in the circumstances to protect workers entering the space, as required under clause 25(2)(h) of the OHSA. What are the hazards of oxygen deficiency or enrichment? If the concentration of oxygen falls below the acceptable limit of 19.5%, the space is oxygen-deficient. This hazard is a significant cause of many fatalities in confined spaces. Oxygen deficiency may occur from biological or chemical reactions such as rusting, or by displacement of oxygen by other gases. If the concentration exceeds the limit of 23%, then the space is oxygen-enriched, increasing the likelihood of explosions or fires by increasing the potential of any combustible or flammable material to be ignited as well as the rate of reaction. Oxygen enrichment may occur from leaking gases, welding equipment, or oxygen lines that have not been blanked. OXYGEN SCALE Confined Spaces Guideline 15 6% Difficult breathing, death in minutes More than 23% Oxygen enriched, extreme fire hazard 16% Impaired judgement and breathing 14% Faulty judgement, rapid fatigue 21% Normal 19.5% Minimum for safe entry 16 Confined Spaces Guideline 5. THE PROGRAM Section 5 5 (1) If a workplace includes a confined space that workers may enter to perform work, the employer shall ensure that a written program for the confined space is developed and maintained in accordance with this Regulation before a worker enters the confined space. (2) A program described in subsection (1) may apply to one or more confined spaces. (3) In the case of a workplace that is not a project, the program described in subsection (1) shall be developed