the employer, or in the case of a project, the constructor, shall ensure that each entrance to the confined space, (a) is adequately secured against unauthorized entry; or (b) has been provided with adequate barricades, adequate warning signs regarding unauthorized entry, or both. Only authorized personnel are allowed entry to the confined space, in accordance with the procedures identified in the plan. The employer or constructor, as the case may be, must ensure that measures and procedures are put in place to adequately secure each entrance to the confined space against unauthorized or accidental entry. These measures and procedures may include, but are not limited to, adequate barricades, adequate warning signs, or any combination thereof. In addition, while workers are in a confined space, there is a requirement for an attendant who should have control over access. In some circumstances, use of signs is not practical, such as for every manhole and grate. A tool is usually required for removal of the cover, and therefore, it would likely be considered secure against entry. Confined Spaces Guideline 53 18. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES What are the qualifications needed for a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience? A person with adequate knowledge, training and experience can include a worker, a supervisor, a consultant, or anyone who has, in addition to the “academic” knowledge of the task at hand, a hands-on knowledge in safely performing the work, a knowledge of the associated hazards, the possible controls, and the legal requirements in order to enact the necessary controls to protect the health and safety of the workers in and about the confined space. This person or persons, (as it may be a group of people), must be able to perform the specific task or tasks adequately, such as being able to perform adequate atmospheric testing. What are the differences with this term and a “competent person”? A “competent person” is different from a person having “adequate knowledge, training, and experience”. There is an added responsibility of also having “to organize the work”, which usually is associated with a supervisor’s responsibility. The term “competent person” is defined in the OHSA as follows: “competent person” means a person who, (a) is qualified because of knowledge, training and experience to organize the work and its performance; (b) is familiar with this Act and the regulations that apply to the work, and (c) has knowledge of any potential or actual danger to health or safety in the workplace. While a supervisor may have had a role in organizing the work, he or she may not necessarily be competent to carry out the specific task or tasks. A competent person is required for:  Developing and implementing the confined space plan  Verification that the entry permit continues to comply with the plan, prior to the start of each shift (and before first, initial entry). 54 Confined Spaces Guideline Persons with adequate knowledge, training, and experience would be the ones called upon to:  Carry out an adequate assessment