does not have sufficient experience, one effective means of ensuring the new worker obtains adequate experience and training would be to have the worker teamed up with more experienced workers. Every worker that enters a confined space must be adequately trained in accordance with the plan. Elements of the plan may include but are not necessarily limited to the following:  Recognition and identification of potential hazards associated with the confined spaces that will be entered. Confined Spaces Guideline 29  Evaluation and control procedures for the identified or potential hazards.  All equipment such as ventilation equipment (blowers), harnesses and air quality monitors (e.g., Oxygen/combustible meters) that will be used while in the confined space.  All personal protective equipment (e.g., respirators) that the worker will be using while in the confined space.  All procedures for entering the confined space.  Procedures to follow in the event of a situation developing that could present additional risk to the worker or an emergency.  The specific work to be done while in the confined space. Workers with emergency rescue responsibilities will need training related to the rescue. All confined space training should include some hands-on training with the safety equipment including the personal protective equipment and safety harnesses. Although records of training must be kept, they may be recorded on the entry permit by incorporating the record into the permit, which also must be kept. Do I have to provide refresher training? Refresher training is not specifically required in the Confined Spaces Regulation, but for a workplace that is not a project, a review of training is required on an annual basis and whenever there is a change in circumstances that may affect the safety of a worker who enters a confined space in the workplace, such as a change in process or hazard assessment. A review is not the same as providing annual training. However, the employer must ensure that the confined space training is adequate. Where the review determines the training not to be adequate, additional training should be provided. Refresher training at intervals determined by the specific conditions of the workplace may be needed. May I purchase a training program or contract it out? The hazard recognition and general part of the training could be purchased or contracted out. However, this training might need to be supplemented by plan 30 Confined Spaces Guideline specific training to ensure the workers are adequately trained. If any training is contracted out, it remains the responsibility of the employer to ensure the adequacy of the training delivered to the workers. May I use web-based training? Web-based training could be part of your training. However, the training may be supplemented with the plan-specific training. Regardless of the source of training or how it is provided to workers, the employer has the duty to ensure it is adequate to protect the health and safety of the workers who work in or around the confined space. Does a trainer or a training organisation