(i) result in acute health effects that pose an immediate threat to life, or Confined Spaces Guideline 11 (ii) interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a confined space. In the definition of a confined space, what is meant by “in which atmospheric hazards may occur”? The intent of this wording is to ensure that consideration is given to atmospheric hazards that may exist in the space or that may occur due to the following: o The construction of the space o The location of the space o The contents of the space o The work being done in the space. The evaluation of the space to determine if the regulatory requirements apply may include consideration of previous data (including air sampling), knowledge of the process and space, data on space configuration (size, design, areas for pocketing, double wall, etc.) and knowledge and data on the generation and accumulation of contaminants. Historical information, such as previous incidents that occurred in the specific space or similar spaces, or incidents that have occurred with similar processes, should also be taken into account. In determining whether a hazardous atmosphere may occur, consideration should, among other things, be given to the atmosphere that may be present or which is created by routine, normal work activities. While the potential consequences of unexpected events (such as the inadvertent cutting of a hose) need to be considered by the employer in order to take reasonable precautions, the risk assessment undertaken by the employer should determine whether these events would be within the scope of normal work activities. What are possible sources of atmospheric hazards? Sources of atmospheric hazards may include: 1. Previous contents of the space. An example would be a tank with a residual amount of organic solvent in it, such as perchloroethylene. 2. Atmospheric hazards generated from chemical reactions of materials present in the space. An example would be the decomposition of organic materials that would cause the formation of methane, a flammable gas, and hydrogen sulphide, a toxic atmospheric contaminant. Another example would be rusting, or oxidation, within a 12 Confined Spaces Guideline confined space that would consume oxygen and cause an oxygen deficiency. 3. Activities performed in or about the space. Examples include welding, which generates welding fumes, and solvent cleaning, which generates solvent vapours. 4. Hazardous contaminants that may inadvertently enter into the space from adjacent processes or locations. An example would be carbon monoxide from vehicle exhaust entering street manholes or a trench. What is a “flammable gas”? A “flammable gas” is a gas that is capable of being ignited and burned when mixed with the proper proportions of air, oxygen or other oxidizer. Note: A “flammable gas” is defined by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) as a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia (101.325 kPa), that is ignitable at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia (101.325 kPa) when in a mixture of 13 percent or less by volume with air,