to which the assessment relates, if the workplace has no joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative. (9) The employer shall ensure that the assessment is reviewed as often as is necessary to ensure that the relevant plan remains adequate. Before any worker enters a confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate assessment of the hazards related to the confined space has been carried out. The hazard assessment is not intended for the purpose of evaluating whether or not a space is a confined space. The assessment is intended to be carried out as part of the entry preparation process. It is critical to identifying the existing hazards of individual confined spaces, and the hazards that may develop during the work activity inside the confined space. In addition to assessing the Confined Spaces Guideline 19 atmospheric hazards that pose an imminent danger to workers, the employer should also assess other hazards present in the space. The assessment may include the following hazards:  Oxygen deficiency/oxygen enrichment  Flammable, combustible or explosive agents  Toxic air contaminants, smoke, fumes, and dusts  Residual chemicals/materials  Ignition hazards, including hot work, tools and other potential sources of ignition  Chemical contact hazards, including acids, alkalis  Physical hazards, including mechanical hazards, thermal stress, humidity radiation, noise and vibration, working/walking surfaces, engulfing materials, physical obstacles, poor visibility  Electrical hazards, including lines and cables, exposed terminals  Traffic hazards, including pedestrian, mobile equipment  Biological hazards, including animals and biological agents  Other hazards related to the confined space, including piping/distribution systems, pressurizing fluids, any type of uncontrolled energy (water, liquid, vapour, electric, magnetic, gaseous, etc.), limited access and egress A hazard assessment must be completed by a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to be able to perform the assessment. This written assessment must be completed, signed, and dated prior to any worker entering a confined space. The employer must maintain a record containing details of the person’s knowledge, training and experience. The employer must have the assessment reviewed as often as necessary to ensure that the resulting plan remains adequate. A record of the assessment may be incorporated into the entry permit. Is a hazard assessment required for each confined space entry? The assessment must be carried out before any worker enters a confined space. The employer is required to ensure that the assessment is reviewed as often as is necessary to ensure that the relevant plan remains adequate. Therefore, an assessment is not needed each time a worker goes in and out of the confined 20 Confined Spaces Guideline space during the period to which an entry permit applies. However, the assessment should be repeated each time that there is a new entry permit issued for work to be done in a confined space. This is because the employer must ensure that there are no new hazards that have developed since the last time that the assessment was carried out. In addition, a different