whenever there is a change in circumstances that may affect the safety of a worker who enters a confined space in the workplace, and in any case at least once annually. (5) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who received training under this section, the nature of the training and the date when it was provided. (6) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. (7) Training under this section may be combined with training under section 9. Section 9: Plan-Specific Training – workplaces other than projects 9(0.1) This section does not apply to workplaces that are projects. (1) The employer shall ensure that every worker who enters a confined space or who performs related work, (a) receives adequate training, in accordance with the relevant plan, to work safely and properly; and (b) follows the plan. (2) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who received training under this section, and the date when it was provided. (3) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section 10. (4) Training under this section may be combined with training under section 8. 28 Confined Spaces Guideline Section 9.1: Training - projects 9.1(1) This section applies only to workplaces that are projects. (2) The employer shall ensure that every worker who enters a confined space or who performs related work receives adequate training to perform the work safely, in accordance with the relevant plan. (3) Training under subsection (2) shall include training in, (a) the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces; and (b) safe work practices for working in confined spaces and for performing related work. (4) The employer shall maintain up-to-date written records showing who provided and who received training under this section and the date when it was provided. (5) The employer shall provide the training records under subsection (4) to the project’s joint health and safety committee or health and safety representative, if any, on request. (6) The records may be incorporated into an entry permit under section10 What training will be required in order to enter confined spaces? Every worker who works in a confined space must receive adequate training in the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces and training to be able to safely perform the assigned duties for that specific confined space. Training is also required for persons contributing to the work activity (i.e., performs related work) even those not entering the confined space, for example, attendants and rescue workers. Rescue personnel require training in on-site rescue procedures, first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and the use of the specific rescue equipment required. On-site rescue procedures should be practiced so as to ensure a high level of proficiency. Giving instructions to a confined space worker does not ensure that the worker is competent to safely perform work. Hands-on training should be an essential part of the confined space training. In cases where a worker is new to the job and