test results is determined by the confined space plan, based on the potential for accumulation and possible fluctuations of the atmospheric hazards as determined by the assessment. What are the requirements for record keeping? In general, the employer must retain atmospheric testing records for the longer of the following periods: one year after the document is created; or, the period that is necessary to ensure that at least the two most recent records of each kind that relate to a particular confined space are retained. For confined spaces with multi- employer involvement, the constructor or employer (as the case may be) responsible for creating the record shall retain the record. On construction projects, the records must be kept by the constructor or employer (as the case may be) for at least one year after the project is finished. ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS AND ATMOSPHERIC TESTING Assess hazards, including atmospheric hazards that may exist or be created in the confined space Determine appropriate testing procedure, select and calibrate appropriate testing device Test for levels of oxygen, flammable, combustible and explosive agents and toxic substances Can acceptable atmospheric levels be achieved and maintained, with or without purging and ventilating? Are flammable, combustible or explosive agents present? Achieve and maintain acceptable atmospheric levels. Purge and ventilate if necessary. Can confined space be rendered inert? 40 Confined Spaces Guideline Enter with appropriate precautions, respiratory protection and equipment ENTRY NOT PERMITTED Render inert and monitor Are flammable, combustible or explosive agents present? Enter, test per plan and maintain records Go to Chart 2 YES YES YES NO NO NO YES Is combustible dust airborne, creating a hazard of explosion?? A A NO YES NO Chart 1 Decision tree for confined space entry From Chart 1 Concentration of flammable or explosive gas or vapour <5% LEL Confined Spaces Guideline 41 HOT WORK PERMITTED Concentration of oxygen <23 % HOT WORK NOT PERMITTED YES YES Concentration of flammable or explosive gas or vapour <10% LEL COLD WORK PERMITTED COLD WORK NOT PERMITTED NO Concentration of flammable or explosive gas or vapour <25% LEL INSPECTION PERMITTED ENTRY NOT PERMITTED NO YES YES Chart 2 Decision tree for work in flammable or explosive gas or vapour NO NO 42 Confined Spaces Guideline 13. VENTILATION AND PURGING Section 20 20 (1) This section applies only in respect of atmospheric hazards described in clause (b) or (c) of the definition of “atmospheric hazards” in section 1. (2) If atmospheric hazards exist or are likely to exist in a confined space, the confined space shall be purged, ventilated or both, before any worker enters it, to ensure that acceptable atmospheric levels are maintained in the confined space while any worker is inside. (3) If mechanical ventilation is required to maintain acceptable atmospheric levels, an adequate warning system and exit procedure shall also be provided to ensure that workers have adequate warning of ventilation failure and are able to exit the confined space safely. (4) If compliance with subsection (2) is not practical in the