near a confined space in direct support of work inside the confined space”. Who is responsible for the confined space entry if the employer contracts the job out to a contractor or several contractors? An employer may decide to contract out work to those with specific expertise; however, an employer cannot contract out its duties as an employer under the OHSA or its regulations. The employer must ensure that the workers work in compliance with the confined spaces requirements. Who is responsible for the coordination document? The coordination document must be prepared by the “lead employer” or in the case of a project, the constructor. The “lead employer” as defined by the Regulation, is an employer who contracts for the services of one or more other employers or independent contractors in relation to one or more confined spaces that are located either in the lead employer’s workplace or in another employer’s workplace. On a construction project, the constructor is responsible for the preparation of the coordination document if workers of more than one employer performs work in the same confined space or related work with respect to the same confined space on a construction project. The coordination document must ensure that employer duties with respect to the following subject matters are performed in a way that protects the health and safety of all workers who perform work in the confined space or related work with respect to the confined space: (a) confined space program; (b) hazard assessment; (c) written plan; (d) plan-specific training or training- projects, as applicable (e) entry permits; 26 Confined Spaces Guideline (f) written on-site rescue procedures, rescue equipment and methods of communication; (g) isolation of energy and control of materials movement; (h) attendants; (i) entering and exiting; (j) unauthorized entry; (k) atmospheric testing; (l) explosive and flammable substances; and (m) ventilation and purging of atmospheric hazards. Confined Spaces Guideline 27 9. TRAINING For all workplaces that are not projects, there are two sections focused on training: 1) hazard recognition and other general training, and 2) plan-specific training. Training requirements on construction projects are contained in a separate section (s.9.1) under the Confined Spaces Regulation. Section 8: Hazard Recognition and other general training – workplaces other than projects 8(0.1) This section does not apply to workplaces that are projects. (1) Every worker who enters a confined space or who performs related work shall be given adequate training for safe work practices for working in confined spaces and for performing related work, including training in the recognition of hazards associated with confined spaces. (2) The employer shall appoint a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience to conduct the training. (3) The employer shall ensure that training under this section is developed in consultation with the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any. (4) The employer shall ensure that training under this section is reviewed, in consultation with the joint health and safety committee or the health and safety representative, if any,