of testing equipment will depend on the circumstances of the confined space, the nature of the work within the space, and knowledge of possible atmospheric hazards. Whenever practical, continuous monitoring should be considered. Equipment performance characteristics to be considered include, but are not limited to: principle of detection of the hazards of concern, specificity, interferences, detection concentration range, response time, calibration requirements, and intrinsically safe equipment for spaces with potential accumulation of flammable hazards. All workers involved with confined space entry should be trained to understand the testing results, in accordance with the relevant plan. What is meant by “calibrated instruments that are in good working order and are appropriate for the hazards identified in the relevant assessment”? Instruments used for measuring atmospheric hazards should be calibrated as per manufacturers’ requirements. The testing instrument must be selected and calibrated for the specific atmospheric hazards likely to be present in the space as identified in the relevant assessment. Equipment maintenance and calibration records should be kept. May I use general survey instruments for atmospheric testing? Yes, but for general survey instruments with sensors that respond to many different chemicals with similar properties, the person performing the tests and the users of test results need to understand the specificity and relative response characteristics of the instrument for proper interpretation of results. For example, a combustible gas instrument that uses pentane as the calibration gas will measure other combustible gases such as methane with a different response characteristic. In this case, the actual concentration of methane will be determined by applying a correction factor to the readout of the instrument. When the exposure is to an unknown mixture of atmospheric contaminants or combustible gases, the testing results need to be interpreted by a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience about the confined space hazards of concern and the testing equipment. Confined Spaces Guideline 39 When is continuous monitoring required? Continuous monitoring is required: o when performing hot work in a confined space that contains or is likely to contain an explosive or flammable gas or vapour. o when the atmosphere in the confined space has been rendered inert by adding an inert gas, or o as set out in the confined space plan. When using continuous monitoring equipment, which may have data logging capability, are records required for test results? Even though a continuous monitor may have data logging capability, results must still be recorded at adequate intervals as determined by the plan, above and beyond the data logging printout or electronic storage. This ensures that workers are actually aware of the levels they are encountering and aware of any fluctuation that may be occurring in order to warn them of any unusual conditions as they develop. Monitors may have alarms; however, depending at what level they are set, they may not give the workers adequate warning of fluctuations or increases in atmospheric levels that should be investigated. What is the required frequency for recording atmospheric test results? The frequency of recording