manipulate materials or equipment and they are not primarily designed for people to occupy them. They may have structures such as ladders or platforms where workers can perform work within the space on occasion. However, these spaces were not designed for continuous human occupancy. A construction project space that is intended for human occupancy but not yet completed in its construction is not considered a confined space if its stage of construction is suitable for continuous human occupancy. Some construction spaces such as sumps and tanks and projects within these spaces may be confined spaces, but not projects in general. A chamber or vault may have cooling ventilation for equipment purposes and have a temporary access space, designed to allow workers to access pipes and equipment (perhaps by using ladders or a door). However, this does not mean that it has been designed to meet codes and standards that would allow workers to safely perform their duties on a regular basis within the chamber or vault. Therefore, these spaces are considered NOT to be both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy. What are examples of spaces that are both designed and constructed for continuous human occupancy? Some examples include offices, service rooms (such as mechanical rooms, elevator rooms), shops, walk-in freezers and refrigerators, laboratories, flammable liquid storage and dispensing rooms, and rooms equipped with approved fire suppression systems. 10 Confined Spaces Guideline Trenches that are under construction and that are in compliance with the O. Reg. 213/91 (Construction Projects) requirements (which cover access and egress, stability of the trench walls and adequate ventilation in the trench) would have been designed for continuous human occupancy during the construction phase – (by virtue of complying with O. Reg. 213/91). What if I cannot determine if a space is not designed and constructed for human occupancy? Where it is not obvious and your evaluation does not determine whether a workspace is or is not designed for continuous human occupancy, consider whether or not there may be an atmospheric hazard present because of its design, construction or location and the work to be performed. If it is determined that no atmospheric hazard may occur, then the confined space provisions would not apply in any case, and the human occupancy question need not be considered. Where an atmospheric hazard may exist and you are still uncertain as to whether the space is designed for human occupancy, you may wish to comply with the confined space provisions. What if the space is so small, such as a six inch pipe? Refer to answer in Section 4, Confined Spaces - “Does this regulation apply to spaces that cannot be entered due to their size?” ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS “atmospheric hazards” means, (a) the accumulation of flammable, combustible or explosive agents, (b) an oxygen content in the atmosphere that is less than 19.5 per cent or more than 23 per cent by volume, or (c) the accumulation of atmospheric contaminants, including gases, vapours, fumes, dusts or mists, that could,