confined space, the employer shall ensure that an adequate number of persons trained in the matters listed in subsection (3) are available for immediate implementation of the on-site rescue procedures mentioned in subsection (1). (3) The persons shall be trained in, (a) the on-site rescue procedures mentioned in subsection (1); (b) first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation; and (c) the use of the rescue equipment required in accordance with the relevant plan. Section 12 (1) The employer shall ensure that the rescue equipment identified in the relevant plan is, (a) readily available to effect a rescue in the confined space; (b) appropriate for entry into the confined space; and (c) inspected as often as is necessary to ensure it is in good working order, by a person with adequate knowledge, training and experience who is appointed by the employer. (2) The inspection under clause (1) (c) shall be recorded in writing by the person, and the record of the inspection may be incorporated into the entry permit under section 10]. (3) The employer shall establish methods of communication that are appropriate for the hazards identified in the relevant assessment, and shall make them readily available for workers to communicate with the attendant described in section 15. An employer has made a decision to treat certain spaces that do not meet the confined space definition in the same way as required for confined spaces. Will the MOL enforce the on-site rescue requirements in this situation? Ministry inspectors enforce the provisions of the OHSA and its regulations, not company policies. If a space does not meet the definition of a confined space in the Regulation, it would not be subject to the confined space requirements contained within it, including the on-site rescue provisions. Employers would still need to comply with relevant regulatory requirements, where applicable, and take every precaution reasonable in the circumstance to protect workers working on, in, or near these spaces. 48 Confined Spaces Guideline May we contract out rescue services? Yes. However, depending upon the hazard assessment and risks involved, this might not be an adequate rescue plan. The hazards must be assessed and an adequate timely response must be ensured based on the potential hazard facing a worker. For example, in the event that workers are in danger in the confined space, a timely emergency removal system would be the difference in minutes that make it a rescue rather than retrieval. Rescue personnel must be available for immediate implementation of the on-site rescue procedures. If choosing to contract out, the employer retains the duty to ensure training of the contracted rescue personnel and the appropriate use of personal protection continues. What rescue equipment can we use? The equipment to use will be dependent upon the hazards in the confined space, and the relevant plan. Examples of safety equipment include harnesses and lifelines, hoist/retrieval systems, self-contained breathing apparatus, airline respirators, and other personal protective equipment. It is of paramount importance when choosing the equipment to be used in a rescue