or that has a flammable range at an absolute pressure of 14.7 psia (101.325 kPa) with air of at least 12 percent, regardless of the lower limit. What is a “flammable vapour”? A “flammable vapour” is the vapour generated by a flammable liquid that is capable of being ignited and burned when mixed with the proper proportions of air, oxygen, or other oxidizer. What is a “flammable liquid”? A "flammable liquid" means a liquid with a flash point below 37.8 degrees Celsius and a vapour pressure not exceeding 275 kilopascals absolute at 37.8 degrees Celsius. Confined Spaces Guideline 13 What is meant by “atmospheric contaminants, including gases, vapours, fumes, dusts or mists that could result in acute health effects that pose an immediate threat to life or interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a confined space”? This refers to toxic airborne agents that when inhaled in high concentrations could cause acute health effects shortly after an overexposure. Acute health effects may include very serious outcomes such as impairment of judgement, unconsciousness, and death. Acute health effects such as irritation, narcosis or anaesthesia could also interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from the exposure situation. Examples of symptoms that may lead to acute health effects include burning eyes, coughing, dizziness, nausea, disorientation, lack of coordination, headache, or other symptoms that manifest immediately following the exposure. If such symptoms are experienced upon entry, it is important that an evaluation be undertaken to determine if there is a possibility of health effects that could cause unconsciousness or death and as such require compliance with confined space entry requirements. What is the connection between the phrase, “atmospheric contaminants, including gases, vapours, fumes, dusts or mists that could result in acute health effects that pose immediate threat to life or interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a confined space” and the phrase, “airborne contaminants with IDLH levels”? “Atmospheric contaminants” is meant to have a similar meaning to “airborne contaminants” with IDLH (Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health) levels when referring to airborne contaminants with acute toxicity. Both relate to overexposure that could interfere with a person’s ability to escape unaided from a confined space. IDLH is not a term defined in the Regulation, but is a term used by NIOSH (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health) to describe levels for air contaminants in the selection of respiratory protection against airborne contaminant exposure. Generally speaking, the IDLH level of airborne contaminants is considered to be a concentration that is immediately dangerous to life or health because the IDLH concentration could cause escape-impairing symptoms or acute irreversible health effects. 14 Confined Spaces Guideline Is the application of confined space provisions triggered by potential exposure to IDLH levels of air contaminants? For a space to fall within the Regulation’s “confined space” definition, it must meet certain criteria (see section 4 of this guideline) including, a fully or partially enclosed space in which atmospheric hazards may occur because of its